Columbia Business School

Columbia Business School (CBS) is a business school of Columbia University in Manhattan, New York City. It was established in 1916. Its purpose is to provide training and professional preparation for undergraduate and graduate Columbia University students. It is one of six Ivy League business schools. Its admission process is among the most selective of top schools.

Columbia Business School offers three separate Master of Science degrees in Management Science & Engineering, Financial Economics and Marketing. Admission to the programs is extremely competitive: in 2011, there were 543 applicants to the Financial Economics program and only 10 students were accepted.

The Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE) is awarded to students who complete a total of 18 program days of executive education within a four-year period. Any executive education program at Columbia Business School can be applied toward the completion of the certificate.

Recipients of the CIBE are granted full alumni status with Columbia Business School, including the following alumni benefits:

Columbia Business School has over 39,000 living alumni. Some of the more notable alumni include the following:


Backlash (2007)

Backlash (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on April 29, 2007 at the Philips Arena in Atlanta, Georgia. It was the ninth Backlash event held by the WWE.


University of Nebraska–Lincoln

The University of Nebraska–Lincoln (also called Nebraska, UNL or NU) it is a public university that also does research. It is located in Lincoln, Nebraska, USA. UNL is the state's oldest and largest university campus. It is also the leading school in the University of Nebraska system.


Nilo-Saharan languages

The Nilo-Saharan languages are a family of African languages. They are spoken by around 50 million people, who mainly live in the upper parts of the Chari and Nile rivers. The languages go through 17 countries in the northern half of Africa:


Herman Kahn

Herman Kahn (February 15, 1922 – July 7, 1983) was one of the most famous futurists of the second half of the twentieth century. His theories helped to develop the nuclear strategy of the United States.

Kahn, a man of "captivating personality and large intellectual gifts", worked for the RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, California, as a military strategist (19481958). He was a founder of the Hudson Institute think tank. This gives ideas and consultations for the U.S. government and military chiefs, and for business clients.

He was known for analyzing the likely consequences of nuclear war and recommending ways to improve survivability. His key idea was that the threat of nuclear war could be controlled by the use of carefully graded deterrence. In order to get his ideas across he ran two-day seminars which included role-playing in various scenarios. His ideas, when published in "On Thermonuclear War", caused a sensation.

However, responses must be proportionate, because if one threatened all-out war as a response for some rather modest misbehaviour, then the threat was simply not believable, and would not work. The need to think things through in detail was the topic of his second book, "Thinking about the Unthinkable".

Kahn was less successful later in his career when he turned his attention to general economics and politics. His ideas on Japan seemed good at the time, but now seem to be not quite right. He predicted that Japan would become the world's third superstate and a military superpower. This he based on Japan's record after 1946, which was spectacular, with quality production and undercutting markets in the older economies. As it turned out, Japan's economy stalled in the 1980s, and has never recovered its previous growth rate. The role he predicted for Japan is now filled by China, a country with a huge reserve of poorly-paid workers and significant military forces. However, Japan has the second largest economy in the region, and now has good relations with the U.S.A. 

Works written by Kahn include:

Backlash (2002)

Backlash (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on April 21, 2002 at the Kemper Arena in Kansas City, Missouri. It was the fourth Backlash event held by the WWF.

This was the first time a WWF pay-per-view was held at Kemper Arena since WWF Over The Edge 1999 where Owen Hart, competing as the Blue Blazer at the time, lost his life after he fell 78 feet from a harness to the ring during an entrance stunt and landed chest-first on the top rope, approximately a foot from the nearest turnbuckle.


Tami Erin

Tamara Erin Klicman (or Tami Erin; July 8, 1974) is an American actress. She played the character of Pippi Longstocking in the 1988 movie "The New Adventures of Pippi Longstocking". She was born in the Chicago metropolitan area.


Anna Favella

Anna Favella (September 21, 1983) is an Italian actress. She works in television and movies. She is known for roles in the TV series "Terra ribelle" and in the movie "Mr. America".

Anna Favella was born and raised in Rome.

Favella started acting when she was very young. Her first minor roles were in programs such as "Enrico Mattei - L'uomo che guardava al future" and "Don Matteo 7". Her first major role was in a TV series called "Terra Ribelle", where she played the role of the main character, Elena Marsili. In 2013, Favella was the main character in the movie "Mr. America".

Backlash (2001)

Backlash (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on April 29, 2001 at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Illinois. It was the third Backlash event held by the WWF.


Pekwachnamaykoskwaskwaypinwanik Lake

Pekwachnamaykoskwaskwaypinwanik Lake is a fresh water lake in Manitoba, Canada. It is Cree for "where the wild trout are caught by fishing with hooks." It is the longest place name in Canada. It is located near Red Sucker Lake in northeastern Manitoba.

Wimbledon High School

Wimbledon High School is a private school for girls aged 4-18 in Wimbledon in South West London. It was started in 1880 by The Girls' Day School Trust.

Division of Cunningham

The Division of Cunningham is an Australian electoral division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1949 and is named for Allan Cunningham, a 19th century explorer of New South Wales and Queensland.

It is on the coast of New South Wales and includes parts of the city of Wollongong, Corrimal, Figtree and Unanderra. It also includes several suburbs of Sydney, including Heathcote and Bundeena. 

Rex Connor was the Minister for Minerals and Energy in the Whitlam government. Stephen Martin was Speaker of the House of Representatives from 1993-1996. Sharon Bird held several ministerial positions in the Gillard and Rudd governments.


Maltby Academy

Maltby Academy is a secondary school in Maltby, England. It started as Maltby Grammar School in 1931. In 1967 it became Maltby Comprehensive School. In 2010 it became an academy and changed its name to reflect this.

Yarm School

Yarm School is a private school in Yarm, England for girls and boys 3-18. It started as Yarm Grammar School in 1590.


Backlash (2000)

Backlash (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on April 30, 2000 at the MCI Center in Washington, D.C.. It was the second Backlash event held by the WWF.


Aircraft Apprentice Scheme

The Aircraft Apprentice Scheme was a training programme in the Royal Air Force. It lasted from 1920 to 1966. The training programme was for aircraft ground crew (those who servicing the aircraft on the ground, as opposed to the pilots).

The Apprentice Scheme was the result of the Royal Air Force's decision to open Schools of Technical Training. RAF Halton was chosen as the home for the training of men and boys. The School of Technical Training (for boys) was not formed as a separate unit until 1919 and only became a permanent establishment on 1 January 1920. In March of that year, RAF Halton was named No. 1 School of Technical Training. No. 2 School of Technical Training at RAF Cranwell was created because there was not enough accommodation to house the boys at RAF Halton.

Batman: Arkham Origins

Batman: Arkham Origins is an action-adventure video game made by Warner Bros. Games Montréal. It can be played on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, Wii U, and Xbox 360. The game is based on the DC Comics superhero Batman and is the third in the "Batman: Arkham" series. It was released worldwide by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment on October 25, 2013.

Unlike previous "Arkham" games, "Arkham Origins" is not made by Rocksteady Studios. It is also written by Dooma Wendschuh and Corey May. The main story takes place five years before the events of 2009's "Batman: Arkham Asylum". The game shows a younger and not entirely formed Batman who has a bounty placed on his head by crime lord Black Mask. This attracts eight of world's greatest assassins to Gotham City on Christmas Eve. While having to deal with the dirty members of the police department, other villains also attract Batman's attention. Like previous "Arkham" games, "Arkham Origins" is played from the third-person view. The game greatly focuses on Batman's combat and stealth abilities, detective skills, and use of gadgets. "Arkham Origins" is the first game in the series to have a multiplayer mode.

The game mainly got positive reviews. But people criticised it for copying things from previous "Arkham" games without improving them, or pointlessly changing it. A tie-in game titled "Batman: Arkham Origins Blackgate" was released along with "Arkham Origins". "Origins Blackgate" is available for Nintendo 3DS and PlayStation Vita. A mobile version of "Arkham Origins" was created for iOS and Android systems. The mobile version was made available for download in October 2013.


2 Chainz

Tauheed Epps (born September 12, 1977), known professionally as 2 Chainz (formerly Tity Boi), is an American rapper. He was born in College Park, Georgia. He is best known for his singles "Riot", "No Lie" (featuring Drake), "I'm Different" and "Birthday Song". He is also known for being half the duo of the rap duo Playaz Circle along with fellow rapper Dolla Boy. The duo was discovered by fellow rapper Ludacris who signed them to his record label DTP. 2 Chainz gained recognition as a solo artist when he was featured on Kanye West's 2012 single "Mercy" off his album "Cruel Summer". He has seven studio albums including: "Based On A True Story" and "B.O.A.T.S: Me Time".


Division of Dobell

The Division of Dobell is an Australian electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and is named for the Australian painter, Sir William Dobell. It is on the Central Coast and includes Bateau Bay, Berkeley Vale, Blue Haven, The Entrance, Gorokan, Jilliby, Ourimbah, Toukley, Tuggerah, Tumbi Umbi, Wamberal, Wyoming.

Craig Thomson was arrested in 2013 and charged with 173 offences including fraud and theft. He resigned form the ALP and sat as an independent. He contested the 2013 election as an independent but only got 4% of the votes.


Nick Cardy

Nicholas Viscardi (October 20, 1920 – November 3, 2013), known professionally as Nick Cardy or Nick Cardi, was American comic book artist. He is best known for his DC Comics work on Aquaman, the Teen Titans and other major characters. Cardy was inducted into the Will Eisner Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2005.

Cardy was born on October 20, 1920 in New York City, New York. He studied at the Art Students League of New York, studying life drawing. Cardy was married to Ruth Houghby from 1947 until they divorced in 1969. They had one son. Cardy died on November 3, 2013 from heart failure at his Miami, Florida home, aged 93.


Hal Needham

Hal Brett Needham (March 6, 1931 – October 25, 2013) was an American stuntman, movie director, actor, and writer. He is known for directing the 1971 comedy movie "Smokey and the Bandit" and "The Cannonball Run". Needham received the Taurus World Stunt Awards Lifetime Achievement Award. 

Needham was born on March 6, 1931 in Memphis, Tennessee. He was raised in Little Rock, Arkansas and in St. Louis, Missouri. 

Needham was married to Dani Crayne from 1981 until they divorced in 1996. Then he was married to Ellyn Wynne Williams from 1996 until his death in 2013. Needham died on October 25, 2013 from cancer in Los Angeles, California, aged 82.


Juan Carlos Calabró

Juan Carlos Calabró (3 February 1934 – 5 November 2013) was an Argentine actor and comedian. He was known for his work "Johnny Tolengo, el majestuoso".

Calabró was born on 3 February 1934 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Calabró died on 5 November 2013 in Buenos Aires, Argentina from kidney disease, aged 79.


Mr. Morgan's Last Love

Mr. Morgan's Last Love is an 2013 comedy-drama movie based on Francoise Dorner's French novel "La Douceur Assassine". It is written and directed by Sandra Nettelbeck. It stars Michael Caine and Clémence Poésy. It was released to negative reviews on November 1, 2013.

Life of Pi (movie)

Life of Pi is a 2012 American drama movie produced and directed by Ang Lee. It stars Suraj Sharma. It was released to very positive reviews on November 21, 2012. It was nominated for three Golden Globe Awards, including Best Picture - Drama and Best Director, and won for Best Original Score. At the 85th Academy Awards, it had 11 nominations, including Best Picture and Best Adapted Screenplay, and won four (the most of the night), including Best Director for Ang Lee.

Judgment Day (2008)

Judgment Day (2008) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 18, 2008 at the Qwest Center in Omaha, Nebraska. It was the tenth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.


Division of Eden-Monaro

The Division of Eden-Monaro is an Australian electoral division in New South Wales. It was one of the 75 divisions set up for the first federal election in 1901. It is named for the town of Eden and the Monaro district of southern New South Wales. It includes Batemans Bay, Bega, Cooma and Queanbeyan. 

Since 1972 the Division has always been won the party that wins government in the elections. It is closely watched by the media when trying to pick the results of an election.

The swings above are calculated from the results of the 2020 Eden-Monaro by-election.


Graham Stark

Graham William Stark (20 January 1922 – 29 October 2013) was an English comedian, actor, writer and director. He was known for his roles in "Alfie" and in "Superman III". 

Stark was born on 20 January 1922 in Wallasey, Cheshire, England. He studied at Wallasey Grammar School. Stark began acting when he was 13 years old. 

Stark was also an accomplished stills photographer. Stark died in London on 29 October 2013 after suffering a stroke. He was 91.

Hans von Borsody

Hans von Borsody (20 September 1929 – 4 November 2013) was a German-Austrian actor. 

He was born in Vienna as a member of an artists family. His father Eduard von Borsody was a movie director, his uncle Julius von Borsody a set designer. His daughter Suzanne von Borsody is also an actress.

von Borsody died on 4 November 2013 in Berlin, Germany from lung cancer, aged 84.

Division of Farrer

The Division of Farrer is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1949 and is named for William Farrer, an agricultural scientist. It is in the southern rural area of the state and includes Albury, Balranald, Broken Hill, Deniliquin and Jerilderie.

It was held by three Cabinet ministers in succession, David Fairbairn, Wal Fife and Deputy Prime Minister Tim Fischer.


Jorge Ramos

Jorge Ramos Ávalos (born March 16, 1958) is a Mexican journalist for Univision. He is the anchor for "Noticiero Univision" and host of the Sunday morning news talk show Al Punto. Also, on Fusion TV, he hosts "America with Jorge Ramos", which debuted on October 29, 2013.

Ramos was born on March 16, 1958 in Mexico City, Mexico. He studied at Universidad Iberoamericana. Ramos has won eight Emmy Awards throughout his career for journalism.


Judgment Day (2007)

Judgment Day (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 20, 2007 at the Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Missouri. It was the ninth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.


Christian (given name)

Christian [ kris-ch"uh"n ] is a given name. Both men and women can be named "Christian". The name comes from the Latin word "Christianus", meaning "follower of Christ". It has been commonly used as a name since the Middle Ages - especially amongst females.

The name is popular in Europe, United States and other English-speaking countries. In Europe — though not the United States — it is almost exclusively used as a male name. However, in the 17th and 18th centuries it was a popular female first name in Scotland.

Female variants of the name include Christine, Christina, Christiane, Kristen, Kristin, and Kirsten. Holders of the name "Christian" may go by the nicknames or shortened forms Chris, Chrissy, Crix or Xian.






Enhanced geothermal system

An enhanced geothermal system (EGS) is a geothermal energy system that can make electrical energy when natural underground water is not there. 

For a long time, geothermal energy could only be produced where there were hot rocks, underground water, and cracks in rocks all together in one area. These areas may need underground water or a network of fractures in their rocks or both. 

Heat can now be got outside normal geothermal areas like active plate boundaries. It can be got in less active areas like the western United States.

The heat is got by artificially pushing water down into hotter rocks. This can create new fractures through the rock in addition to expanding the existing fractures. That is why the new technique is called "fracking".

Division of Fowler

The Division of Fowler is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and named after Lilian Fowler, the first woman mayor in Australia. It includes the suburbs of Ashcroft, Austral, Bonnyrigg, Bonnyrigg Heights, Busby, Cabramatta, Cabramatta West, Canley Heights, Canley Vale, Cartwright, Cecil Hills, Cecil Park, Edensor Park, Green Valley, Greenfield Park, Heckenberg, Hinchinbrook, Lansvale, Liverpool, Middleton Grange, Miller, Mount Pritchard, Prairiewood, Sadleir, St Johns Park, Wakeley and West Hoxton.

Chris Hayes had previously been the member for Werriwa.


The Latymer School

The Latymer School is a grammar school in Edmonton, London, England. It was started in 1624 by merchant Edward Latymer. In their 2008 report Ofsted graded the school as 'outstanding'. Bruce Forsyth was a student. The school is selective and co-educational.

About 186 pupils are admitted to Year 7 (aged 11 or 12) annually. Places are awarded by a competitive examination. 20 places are reserved for pupils with exceptional musical talent. The examinations taken by prospective pupils cover non-verbal reasoning, verbal reasoning and numeracy.

Around 60-70 pupils join the sixth form in Year 12 (aged 16 or 17) per year, mixing with Latymer pupils who have made the transition from Year 11. External applicants to the sixth form sit entrance examinations and generally require 6 A grades at GCSE (or equivalent) level.

Boeing T-43

The Boeing T-43 is a military variant of the twin-turbojet airliner Boeing 737-200. It was used between 1973 and 2010 as a training aircraft by the US Air Force. It was the biggest training aircraft in the United States.

It was used by Air Education and Training Command's 12th Flying Training Wing. Some were built as CT-43 for passenger transport duties.


Haberdashers' Aske's School for Girls

Haberdashers' Aske's School for Girls is a private school for girls in Elstree, Hertfordshire. It was started in 1875 by the Worshipful Company of Haberdashers. In 2013 100% of GCSEs were A*-C and 69.8% were A*.

Elstree

Elstree is a village in Hertfordshire, England. The television show "EastEnders" is made there at Elstree Studios.

Emmerdale

Emmerdale is a British soap opera. It is set in a made-up village called Emmerdale, called Beckindale until 1994, in the Yorkshire Dales. The plot is focused on things that happen in and around The Woolpack, the main village pub. It is on ITV every weekday at 7.30pm. It was called Emmerdale Farm until 1989. The show first started in 1972 and was created by Kevin Laffan, making it Britain's second oldest soap opera after "Coronation Street". It is one of the most popular television programmes in Britain. "Emmerdale" has won many awards including one BAFTA. King Charles III did a statement marking on the 50th anniversary of "Emmerdale".

Rockwell B-1 Lancer

The Rockwell B-1 Lancer is a strategic bomber in the service of the US Air Force. It is a four-turbojet aircraft that uses a variable-sweep wing. It can carry nuclear weapons or classic bombs. It is only used by the USA.


 - Simulacrum of the B-1A


History of modern Mongolia

Mongolia became independent on December 29, 1911 from the Qing Dynasty.

In 1924, the constitutional monarchy was no longer used when the king died. The Mongolian People's Republic was formed. The name of the capital city was changed from Küriye to Ulan Bator. It was ruled by the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party and had very close relationship with the Soviet Union. The country was socialist.

The Republic of China had Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Alliance with the USSR. However, the Soviet Union was later criticised for helping the People's Republic of China in the Chinese Civil War. In United Nations General Assembly Resolution 505, the Republic of China claimed that they would not give up Mongolia as a part of China.

In February 1992, Mongolia gave up socialism. The name of the country was shortened to "Mongolia".

Fiat G.50

The Fiat G.50 was an Italian fighter aircraft. It was used for World War II. It was a single-engine aircraft with a single seat. It carried were two 0.50 machine-guns as weapons. Countries that operated this aircraft were Croatia, Finland, Italy, Nazi Germany, Spain, and Yugoslavia.

Mers-les-Bains

Mers-les-Bains is a commune of Somme near Eu and Le Tréport. By the river "Bresles", it marks the border with Upper Normandy. This commune is famous for its beach and its casino.

The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano

The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano, or Gustavus Vassa, The African, is a book that was first published in 1789. It is the autobiography of Olaudah Equiano. The book describes Equiano's life in slavery. It records his efforts to be free by studying the Bible. The book goes on to tell about his gaining his freedom and his success in business. It was published in 1789 in Great Britain to inform the British public what the life of slaves was like.

Bridgewater High School

Bridgewater High School is a secondary school in Warrington, Cheshire, England. It started in 1987. It was rated 'outstanding' by Ofsted. It has a sixth form called Appleton College.

King Solomon High School

King Solomon High School is a secondary school in Barkingside, England. In their 2010 report Osted described the school as 'caring'.

Colyton Grammar School

Colyton Grammar School is a grammar school in the village of Colyford in England. It was started in 1546. 49.4% of GCSEs in 2013 were A*, an increase of 4% on the past year, and 68.5% of A-levels were A*-A. Ofsted rated the school as outstanding.

]

Division of Gilmore

The Division of Gilmore is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and is named for Dame Mary Gilmore, the poet and author. It includes the Budawang and Morton National Parks. The division includes Berry, Bomaderry, Culburra Beach, Gerringong, Kangaroo Valley, Kiama, Milton, Minnamurra, Nowra, Shellharbour, Shell Cove, Sussex Inlet, Ulladulla and Warilla.


Eriophorum

Eriophorum (also called cotton grass) is a genus of about 25 species of flowering plants. It is in the family Cyperaceae. They grow in temperate regions in the Northern Hemisphere. They are especially abundant in Arctic tundra regions.

Sevenoaks School

Sevenoaks School is an English co-educational public school in Kent. It is a member of the G20 Schools Group. It is the second oldest non-denominational school in the United Kingdom, dating back to 1432, behind Oswestry (1407). Over 1,000 day pupils and boarders attend, ranging in age from 11 to 18 years. There are approximately equal numbers of boys and girls. 

It was the first school in England to switch to the International Baccalaureate instead of the usual A-Level exams.

Hotchkiss School

Hotchkiss School is a prep boarding school in the state of Connecticut in the United States. It is a member of the G20 Schools Group and Round Square. For boarders it costs $49,940 including technology and health services fees. It started in 1891.

King Ecgbert School

King Ecgbert School is a secondary school in Sheffield, England. Ofsted rated it as 'good'.

Betty Shabazz

Betty Shabazz was an American educator and civil rights activist. She was the widow of Malcolm X. 

She was born on May 28, in either 1934 or 1936. Her full name at birth was Betty Dean Sanders. She grew up in Detroit, Michigan. She and Malcolm X joined the Nation of Islam in 1956. They married in 1958. They had six children together. She raised them on her own after her husband was murdered in 1965.

Shabazz converted to Islam in 1965. Betty was pregnant with twin girls when she witnessed Malcolm X’s assassination. Betty never remarried after her husband’s death, and became a national figure. She also cared deeply about the struggle of people of African heritage in the U.S.
Shabazz's grandson Malcolm Shabazz (1984-2013) set fire to her apartment on June 1, 1997. She died of burns in hospital on June 23, 1997. He was convicted of arson and manslaughter and sentenced to 18 months juvenile detention.

Topographic map

A topographic map is a kind of map which uses contour lines or other ways to show elevation and topography. These maps are often very detailed, with a scale. 

Topographical maps may be used for many purposes. They show relief features, rivers, land use, vegetation, settlements, roads, railway lines and administrative units and boundaries. These maps are revised periodically to update them. Town guide maps are based on them.

Features seen on the ground are shown with the help of symbols on the topographic maps. These are only symbols of Earth's features and are not drawn according to any specific scale. These conventional signs help in giving information and adding legibility to the map.

Postage stamps and postal history of Macau

This is a survey of the postage stamps and postal history of Macau.

The first stamps issued for Macau by the Portuguese was in 1884. The common "Portuguese crown" design was used and nine values ranging from 5 to 300 reis were made.

When Macau became a special administrative region of the People's Republic of China, all stamps with "Macau, Portuguese Republic" () were no longer used. Instead, "Macau, China" was printed on the stamp.



BAC One-Eleven

The British Aircraft Corporation One-Eleven or sometime British Aircraft Corporation 111 or also BAC 111 was a British airliner. It was a twin-turbojet that could carry around one hundred passengers. Some were built under licence in Romania as RomBAC 111. This aircraft is similar to the French Sud Aviation Caravelle and to the US Douglas DC-9. The One-Eleven was retired from service in the 1990s because of noise restrictions. It was one of the more successful British designed airliners.

Before the airplane was called the BAC 1-11, it was called the Hunting 107 before Hunting Aircraft merged with British Aircraft corporation. It entered service in 1965, a while before it's competitors. Despite it being a British aircraft, half of the original orders were American. During the 1980s noise restrictions were passed, and most airlines wanted to hush-kit the aircraft instead of putting the aircraft out of service. They did this because at least half of the 1-11s still in service were fairly new; only 5-10 years old. During the early 1990s, more noise restrictions were passed, and this time, the planes were approaching retirement age anyway, so the BAC 1-11 saw most airlines retiring them in the 90s. The last ones in service were testbeds for the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II, and those were retired in 2019.

Softwood

Softwood is wood that comes from gymnosperm trees. These are conifers, a term which includes most evergreen and deciduous trees. 

Softwood makes up about 80% of the world's production of lumber. Traditional production areas include North America, Scandinavia, Baltic countries and China. The opposite of softwood is hardwood, which is wood that comes from angiosperm trees. Softwoods are not always softer than hardwoods. Both groups include a variety of wood types that vary in actual hardness. For example balsa is a hardwood but is softer than most softwoods. Douglas fir, a softwood, is much harder than many hardwoods. 


Detroit Lakes, Minnesota

Detroit Lakes is a city and the county seat of Becker County, Minnesota, United States. The city's economy is based on tourism and agriculture. It attracts tourists in both summer and winter.


VFW-Fokker 614

The VFW-Fokker 614 is a West German airliner. It is a twin-turbojets aircraft. Its uniqueness lies in the implementation of its two turbojets above the wing. VFW-Fokker 614 can carry between 40 and 44 passengers.
It was used by airlines in Denmark, France, and Germany until 2007. German Air Force, the "Luftwaffe", also used this aircraft for speed liaisons and VIP transport.

Andreja Pejić

Andreja Pejić (born 28 August 1991) is an Australian model and actress.

She was born in Tuzla, Bosnia. During the Bosnian War she and her older brother Igor, mother, and grandmother fled to a refugee camp in Serbia. After the 1999 NATO bombing of Serbia, Pejić's mother felt unsafe and in 2000 the family moved to Melbourne.

Pejić was assigned male at birth. She models both male and female clothing. Her website describes her as transgender. She was signed to Storm Models in February 2012. She has appeared on the cover of Russian Vogue and Elle Serbia. In February 2013 she appeared in the video for David Bowie's single "The Stars (Are Out Tonight)". In October 2013 an interview with her was published by "La Monda" magazine. In it she said publicly for the first time that she likes people calling her 'she' more than 'he' or other gender pronouns. In early 2014 she had sex reassignment surgery.

Her boyfriend is Rembrandt Duran.

Vought F6U Pirate

The Vought F6U Pirate is a US navalized fighter aircraft that served in the U.S. Navy. It was one of the first military single-turbojet aircraft after World War II. Its first flight was in October 1946. Only 65 were ever built, and they were only used between 1947 and 1950.

Anna Grodzka

Anna Grodzka (born 16 March 1954) is a Polish politician. In 2011, she was elected to the National Assembly as a member of the Palikot's Movement party. She became Poland's first transsexual Member of Parliament. She is the only openly transgender MP in the world. She went to the University of Warsaw. She is bisexual.

Mamphela Ramphele

Mamphela Aletta Ramphele (born 28 December 1947) is a South African politician and writer. In February 2013, she started her own political party, Agang South Africa. Ramphele was previously an activist against Apartheid in South Africa.

Playaz Circle

Playaz Circle is an American hip hop duo signed to the Def Jam Recordings record label. The group was established in 1997 by rappers 2 Chainz (then known as Tity Boi) and Dolla Boy. Before they began recording in 2007, Dolla Boy was incarcerated and Tity Boi was shot. They were discovered by Ludacris and he signed them to his record label DTP. They are best known for their hit single "Duffle Bag Boy" that features Lil Wayne. In 2013, they broke up to work individually.

Fisher Ames

Fisher Ames (April 9, 1758 – July 4, 1808) was a United States Congress representative from the First Congressional District of Massachusetts.

Ames was born in Dedham, Massachusetts. His father died when Ames was six years old. Even though his mother did not have much money, she wanted to give Ames a good education. Ames started learning Latin when he was six years old. He went to Harvard College when he was twelve years old. He graduated in 1774. After Ames graduated, he started to work as a teacher. When he was a teacher, he also studied law. He started to work as a lawyer in the year 1781.

He served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives in 1788. He was also part of the Massachusetts Convention in the same year. He served in Congress from March 4, 1789 to March 3, 1797. Ames decided to be a lawyer again in 1796, but he stayed in politics until he died in Dedham on July 4, 1808.

Judgment Day (2006)

Judgment Day (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 21, 2006 at the US Airways Center in Phoenix, Arizona. It was the eighth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.


North China Plain

The North China Plain () is the large space of level land in eastern China. It was made by the Yellow River for the most part. It is the largest space of level land in eastern Asia. The Yellow River goes through the middle of the plain into the Bohai Sea. This plain is very important to China, because people grow lots of crops here. The North China Plain is 409,500 square kilometers. Most of this area is 50 meters below sea level. China's capital, Beijing, is in the north part of the plains. The southern part is sometimes called Zhongyuan, though it is also called the Central Plains. The Chinese civilization formed in the Central Plains.

Babar: King of the Elephants

Babar: King of the Elephants is an animated movie that was released in 1998. It was co-produced by Nelvana Limited, and Ellipse Animation, In co-production With Warner Bros. Animation, in association with The Clifford Ross Company. It was premiered on Teletoon in Canada. It is based on a series of children's books by Jean de Brunhoff.




Division of Grayndler

The Division of Grayndler is an Australian Electoral Division in Sydney, New South Wales. It is one of Australia's smallest electorates, and includes the suburbs of Annandale, Ashfield, Dulwich Hill, Enmore, Haberfield, Hurlstone Park, Leichhardt, Marrickville, Newtown, Petersham, Stanmore and Summer Hill. It was set up in 1949 and is named for Edward Grayndler (1867–1943), a Member of the New South Wales Legislative Council and General Secretary of the Australian Workers' Union from 1912 to 1941. 

Fred Daly was a minister in the Whitlam government. Leo McLeay was Speaker of the House 1989–93. He moved to Watson during an electoral boundary change. Tony Whitlam, Gough's son, served only one term but then lost preselection after division boundaries were changed in 1977. 


Wulfhere of Mercia

Wulfhere or Wulfar ( 675) was an early King of Mercia. Although his father was pagan Wulfhere was a Christian. His older brother Peada ruled Mercia south of the River Thames under Oswiu of Northumbria. When Peada was murdered Oswiu held Mercia until the ealdormen of Mercia rebelled and placed Wulfhere on the throne. Wulfhere ruled Mercia from 658 until his death. He was the first Mercian (overlord) of England. 

Wulfhere was a younger son of King Penda. His older brother Peada accepted Christianity to marry the daughter of King Oswiu of Northumbria. After their father was killed by Oswiu, Peada was set up as a king of southern Mercia. Peada's wife murdered him within five months. Oswiu then took control of all Mercia and ruled it three years. The Mercian ealdormen Immin, Eafa and Eadbert rose up in rebellion against king Oswiu. Wulfhere, who had been kept hidden, was then proclaimed king. Wulfhere had little opposition from Oswiu as he was dealing with a rebellion in Northumbria. Wulfhere began building alliances with other kings in the south of England. His first may have been in about 660 when he married Ermenilda, the daughter of King Eorcenberht of Kent and his wife Seaxburh. About this same time he expanded Mercia to the west. He brought Shropshire and Herfordshire under his control. The kings of Essex submitted to his rule by 665.

By the time Oswiu died in 670 Wulfhere was the overlord of most of southern England. He installed Bishop Wine in London after he was expelled from Wessex by king Cenwalh. While Wulfhere did not directly control East Anglia he controlled Lindsey and Essex. By controlling all the surrounding lands, he probably forced East Anglia into a treaty. Wulfhere then made Athelwalh recognize his overlordship in Sussex. He expelled the West Saxons from Sussex and eastern Hampshire. Expanding to the east he made his Frithuwold King of Surrey in 670. When King Ecgberht of Kent died in 673 Wulfhere became the guardian of his two sons Eadric and Wihtred. He then ruled Kent through them. With Wulfhere's support, Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury presided over the Synod of Hertford in 673. In 674 Wulfhere decided to attack Northumbria. Oswiu's son Ecgfrith of Northumbria had put down a rebellion by the Picts when he became king. Wulfhere formed an alliance of most of the southern kings with the exception of Wessex. The southern alliance under Wulfhere was defeated by Ecgfrith in battle. While Wulfhere survived he was forced to pay to Ecgfrith. He soon lost his authority in Kent. Possibly in revenge for not joining him in fighting Northumbria, Wulfhere attacked Wessex. He was defeated by King Aescwine of Wessex in 674. Wulfhere died in early 675. He was succeeded as king by his brother Aethelred.

By his wife Ermenilda, he had:



Automatic behaviour

Automatic behaviour is the name for a set of actions that occur (or that continue to occur), without conscious thought. Usually, they are guided by a part of the nervous system that is called autonomic nervous system, or visceral nervous system. Automatic behaviour is like a reflex.


Many mental illnesses have certain forms of unwanted automatic behaviour.


Minyan

Minyan, in Judaism, is a group of ten Jewish men ( or women in non Orthodox groups) that are needed to perform certain rituals.

Judgment Day (2005)

Judgment Day (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 22, 2005 at the Target Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It was the seventh Judgment Day event held by the WWE.


Judgment Day (2004)

Judgment Day (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 16, 2004 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. It was the sixth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.


Tear down this wall!

"Tear down this wall!" was the challenge made by United States President Ronald Reagan to Soviet Union leader Mikhail Gorbachev to destroy the Berlin Wall. The speech was made at the Brandenburg Gate near the Berlin Wall on June 12, 1987. It was made to honor the 750th anniversary of Berlin. 

Among the spectators were West German president Richard von Weizsäcker, Chancellor Helmut Kohl and First Lady Nancy Reagan.

Reagan challenged Gorbachev, who was then the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, to tear the wall down as a symbol of Gorbachev's desire to increase freedom between Eastern and Western Germany.

The speech is thought to be one of the greatest speeches by Reagan or by any other president. 


Juan Manuel Tenuta

Juan Manuel Tenuta (23 January 1924 – 5 November 2013) was a Uruguayan actor. He was known for his roles in "Waiting for the Hearse", "I Don't Want to Talk About It" and "Night of the Pencils".

Tenuta was born on 23 January 1924 Fray Bentos, Uruguay. He was married to actress Adela Gleijer until his death in 2013. He was father of the actress Andrea Tenuta. Tenuta died on 5 November 2013 in Buenos Aires, Argentina from a stroke, aged 89.

Bill de Blasio

Bill de Blasio (born Warren Wilhelm, Jr.; May 8, 1961) is an American politician. He was the Mayor of New York City from 2014 until 2022. He formerly served as the New York City Public Advocate from 2010 to 2013. Before that, he was a New York City Council member. 

He was the Democratic Party nominee in the 2013 election to become Mayor of New York City. On November 5, 2013, De Blasio won the mayoral election by a landslide, receiving over 73% of the vote. He is the first Democratic mayor of the city in nearly 20 years.

De Blasio was re-elected as Mayor in the 2017 mayoral election with 66.5% of the vote. On January 1, 2018, Bernie Sanders sworn-in De Blasio in his second mayoral inauguration as Mayor.

On May 16, 2019, De Blasio announced his candidacy for President for the 2020 election. He released a YouTube video in which he stated "I’m Bill de Blasio and I’m running for president because it’s time we put working people first". He withdrew from the race on September 20, 2019. In February 2020, he endorsed Bernie Sanders for president.

In May 2022, De Blasio announced he would run for the United States House of Representatives for New York's 10th congressional district. In July 2022, he dropped out of the race and retired from politics to focus on working with non-profit organizations.

De Blasio was born on May 8, 1961 in New York City. His mother's parents were Italian immigrants; his father is of German ancestry. De Blasio studied at Columbia University and at New York University. He has been married to Chirlane McCray since 1994. They have two children.


Death and state funeral of Ronald Reagan

On June 5, 2004, Ronald Reagan, the 40th President of the United States, died after having suffered from Alzheimer's disease for almost 10 years. A seven-day state funeral for Reagan was held shortly after his death. 

After Reagan's death his body was taken from his Bel Air, Los Angeles, California home to the Gates, Kingsley and Gates Funeral Home in Santa Monica, California to prepare the body for burial. On June 7, Reagan's casket was taken by a hearse. The funeral was performed by the Reagan's Presbyterian minister Michael Wenning.

It was displayed at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California, then flown to Washington, D.C. on June 9 for a service, public viewing and tributes at the U.S. Capitol.

After lying in state for thirty-four hours in the Capitol Rotunda, a state funeral service was held at the Washington National Cathedral on June 11. 

On the same day, President George W. Bush declared a national day of mourning. Bush was in Paris when Reagan died. Later that day, after the service, Reagan's casket was taken back to California for burial at the Reagan Presidential Library. Bush later said the following during his press-conference in Paris: 

The state funeral was the first since the funeral of Lyndon B. Johnson in 1973. Richard Nixon, who lead over Johnson's funeral, declined to have a state funeral in 1994. The state funeral was the first time that Washington hosted a major event since the September 11 attacks.

About 4,000 people gathered at the cathedral for the service, including President and Mrs. Bush, former president George H. W. and Barbara Bush, Gerald and Betty Ford, Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter, and Bill and Hillary Clinton. Members of Congress, such as Dick Cheney, Howard Baker, Sandra Day O'Connor, and Dennis Hastert, and past and present governors were also present. Foreign leaders also attended Mikhail Gorbachev, Margaret Thatcher, Brian Mulroney, and Prince Charles (representing Queen Elizabeth II). 

Other world leaders included UK Prime Minister Tony Blair and his wife Cherie, Prince Charles, German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, former Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, close friends Donald Rumsfeld, Ed Meese, Howard Baker, and Colin Powell, Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, former President of Poland Lech Wałęsa, fomer Vice president Al Gore, Jordan's King Abdullah, New York City mayors Michael Bloomberg, Rudy Giuliani, and Ed Koch, as well as interim presidents Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and Ghazi Mashal Ajil al-Yawer of Iraq, and Irish President Mary McAleese.

Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin, French President Jacques Chirac, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, also president of the European Union, and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi also paid their respects to Reagan.


Ronald Reagan Presidential Library

The Ronald Reagan Presidential Library and Center for Public Affairs is the presidential library and final resting place of Ronald Wilson Reagan, the 40th president of the United States and Nancy Reagan, the First Lady of the United States. 

The library is located in Simi Valley, California. The Reagan Library is the largest of the thirteen federally operated presidential libraries. The street address, 40 Presidential Drive, is numbered in honor of Reagan's place as the 40th president.

Construction plans for the library included to build a tomb for the eventual use of Reagan and Nancy. Following a sunset service on the library grounds the last evening, on the morning of June 12, 2004 Reagan was laid to rest in the underground vault. Nancy Reagan, who died on March 6, 2016, was buried at the library next to her husband on March 11.


Division of Greenway

The Division of Greenway is an Australian electoral division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and is named for Francis Greenway, an ex-convict who became an important architect in colonial Sydney.

It is in the west and north-west suburbs of Sydney. It includes Acacia Gardens, Girraween, Glenwood, Kellyville Ridge, Kings Langley, Kings Park, Lalor Park, Parklea, Seven Hills, Stanhope Gardens, The Ponds, Toongabbie and parts of Blacktown, Pendle Hill, Prospect, Quakers Hill, Riverstone, Rouse Hill, Schofields and Vineyard.


Judgment Day (2002)

Judgment Day (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 19, 2002 at the Gaylord Entertainment Center in Nashville, Tennessee. It was the fourth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.


The Indelicates

The Indelicates are an indie rock band from Sussex, England. It was started in late 2005 by Julia Clark-Lowes, who left The Pipettes six months before, and Simon Clayton (under their stage names, Julia and Simon Indelicate). They have released four albums. Julia and Simon are a couple.

The Indelicates released their first album "American Demo" in 2008. In 2010 they released their second album, "Songs for Swinging Lovers". In 2011 the band's third album "David Koresh Superstar" was released. It is a concept album about David Koresh. In 2013 The Indelicates released their fourth album "Diseases of England".

Official website

The Pipettes

The Pipettes are an English girl group. They were formed in Brighton by Robert "Monster Bobby" Barry in 2003 at a seaside party. The members were Julia Clarke-Lowes, Rose Elinor Dougall and Rebecca Stephens. The band has had a lot of changes of members. The members are now Gwenno and Ani Saunders. They have released two albums and two EPs. Their single "Pull Shapes" reached number 26 in the UK Singles Chart. Ani Saunders joined the band in 2008. She is also a member of The Lovely Wars.

Michael Parkinson

Sir Michael Parkinson CBE (28 March 1935 – 16 August 2023) was an English broadcaster, journalist, and writer. He was best known for his chat show "Parkinson" which ran from 1971 to 1982 and again from 1998 to 2007. The show’s most famous moment from 1976 was when Rod Hull and Emu appeared and Emu attacked Parkinson. He was born in Cudworth, a village in South Yorkshire. He went to Barnsley Grammar School. He started his journalism career writing for local newspapers. His book "Parky: My Autobiography" was published on 2 October 2008. 

Parkinson died at home in Bray, Berkshire from prostate cancer on 16 August 2023, aged 88.


Division of Hughes

The Division of Hughes is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1955 and is named for Billy Hughes, who was Prime Minister of Australia 1915-23. It is in the southern and southwestern suburbs of Sydney, including Alfords Point, Bangor, Barden Ridge, Chipping Norton, East Hills, Engadine, Hammondville, Holsworthy, Illawong, Loftus, Lucas Heights, Menai, Milperra, Moorebank, Panania, Picnic Point, Revesby, Warwick Farm, Wattle Grove and Woronora and parts of Padstow, Jannali, Liverpool and Sutherland.

The sitting member, Craig Kelly was elected as a , but resigned from the party in 2021, subsequently joining .


Battle of Long Island

The Battle of Long Island was a major battle in the American war of independence. It is also known as the Battle of Brooklyn or the Battle of Brooklyn Heights. The battle which was fought on August 27, 1776, was a major victory for the British and defeat for the Americans under General George Washington. It was the start of a successful British campaign that gave the British control of the strategically important city of New York. In the American Revolutionary War it was the first major battle to take place after the United States declared independence in July, 1776. In terms of soldiers, it was the largest battle of the entire conflict.

General George Washington, Commander-in-Chief had defeated the British in the Siege of Boston on March 17, 1776. Washington then used the Continental Army to defend the port city of New York. At that time, New York City was only at the southern end of Manhattan Island. Washington understood that the city's harbor would provide an excellent base for the British Navy during the campaign. For this reason, he established defenses there and waited for the British to attack.

The British were commanded by General William Howe. In July his force landed a few miles across the harbor on sparsely-populated Staten Island. Over the next few months, new ships slowly reinforced their position in Lower New York Harbor. In August there were 32,000 soldiers, and the British controlled the entrance of the harbor at The Narrows. Washington knew that it would be difficult to hold the city against such a force. He believed Manhattan would be the first target and he moved most of his forces there.

On August 22, the British landed on the shores of Gravesend Bay in southwest Kings County, across The Narrows from Staten Island, more than 12 miles (20 km) south from the East River crossings to Manhattan. Washington brought some of his troops to northern Kings County, expecting to fight only part of the attacking army.

After five days of waiting, the British attacked American defenses. Unknown to the Americans, however, Howe had brought his main army around their rear and attacked their flank soon after. The Americans panicked, although a stand by 400 Maryland troops prevented most of the army from being captured. The remainder of the army fled to the main defenses on Brooklyn Heights. The British dug in for a siege but, on the night of August 29–30, Washington evacuated the entire army to Manhattan without the loss of materiel or a single life. Washington and the Continental Army were driven out of New York entirely after the battle of Fort Washington and other defeats, and forced to retreat through New Jersey and into Pennsylvania.

Nautical chart

A nautical chart is a map which is used to show objects on the ocean. Nautical charts were very common from the 14th century to the 17th century. They are usually used by sailors to navigate.

Siouxsie and the Banshees

Siouxsie and the Banshees were an English rock band. They were started in 1976 in London by Siouxsie Sioux and Steven Severin. They met at a Roxy Music concert the year before. The band broke up in 1996. They later performed together again in 2002 for a tour. They released 11 studio albums between 1978 and 1995. Their most popular song in the UK was "Dear Prudence", a Beatles cover. It reached number 3 in the UK Singles Chart. They were less popular in the United States, but their 1991 single "Kiss Them For Me" reached 23 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. They were also the second headliners for the first Lollapalooza.

The group played their first concert at the 100 Club Punk Festival. Sid Vicious played drums. Marco Pirroni played guitar. Without practising beforehand, they did a twenty-minute improvised version of the Lord's Prayer. The band had no name and was going to break up after the concert, but they were asked to play again.

Two months later Kenny Morris joined as a drummer and Peter Fenton as a guitarist. After a few performances, the band realized that Fenton didn't fit in and John McKay took his place.

In 1978, the band were signed to Polydor Records. They released their first single "Hong Kong Garden". It reached 7 on the UK Singles Chart. They released their first album, "The Scream", in November. It reached number 12 in the UK Albums Chart. It got mostly good reviews. "Sounds" said it was "the best debut album of the year".

Robert Smith was guitarist in the band's 1979 tour for "Join Hands". He joined the group again in 1982 to replace John McGeoch. He left in 1984 because he said that being in two bands at once was too much stress. He was replaced by John "Valentine" Carruthers. Before he left he wanted his time with the band to be documented, so the band released a cover of the Beatles' "Dear Prudence" with Smith on guitar.

Peter Edward Clark, known as Budgie, also joined the band for the "Join Hands" tour. He stayed a member until the band broke up. In 1987 Carruthers left and was replaced with Jon Klein. Martin McCarrick became the band's full-time keyboard player.

In 1987, the band released "Through the Looking Glass", an album of covers of songs by other musicians.

Between January and June 1988, the band recorded their ninth album, "Peepshow". It was released on 5 September 1988. It had a more pop sound than their previous albums. It got very good reviews. "Q" gave it 5 stars.

In 1991, "Superstition", the Banshees' tenth album, was released. The single "Kiss Them for Me" became their biggest US hit.

In 1995, they released their last album, "The Rapture". A few weeks later, Polydor dropped them from their label. Guitarist Klein was replaced with Knox Chandler for the band's last tour.



History of bus transport in Hong Kong

The history of bus transport in Hong Kong started in 1920 when the first bus route started providing service.

While there was the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong, the Japanese government had tried to turn bus service to the status before the war. However, it wasn't successful since there has run out of petrol.

After WWII, the bus companies temporarily used vans to carry the passages. They used back buses after about 100 buses were bought from the UK.

Arrondissements of the Hautes-Pyrénées department

There are 3 arrondissements in the Hautes-Pyrénées department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into "arrondissements", which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.

The arrondissements of the Hautes-Pyrénées are:

Since its creation, the Hautes-Pyrénées department has had few changes:

Ring theory

Ring theory is a theory from algebra. In algebra a ring is a structure where multiplication and addition are defined. Rings are similar structures to that of integers.

Aurangzeb

Muhi al-Din Muhammad (), better known as Aurangzeb () was the sixth emperor of the Mughal Empire. He ruled over the majority of South Asia and imposed Islamic Sharia law. His reign lasted for 49 years, from 1658 until he died in 1707. During this time, Aurangzeb greatly expanded the territory of the Mughal Empire with victories in South India. He was the last of the most powerful rulers of the Mughal dynasty. After his death, the power of the Mughal Empire declined quickly due to ineffective successors and the rise of the colonial British Empire whose conquests eventually led to British Raj.

His rule saw the spread of Islam in South Asia, and Islamic law was strictly imposed on all subjects of the empire, which led to dissatisfaction among the non-Muslim population towards the Mughal rule. Aurangzeb is often considered the most controversial Mughal ruler in India, as his rule involved the imposition of a discriminatory jizya tax on non-Muslims and the demolition of many Hindu temples.

His administration of the Mughal Empire led to its apex in terms of territory and wealth. Emperor Aurangzeb's exchequer raised a record £100 million in annual revenue through various sources like taxes, customs, and land revenue. He had annual yearly revenue of $450 million, more than ten times that of his contemporary {Louis XIV of France}. He was popular with traders as he abolished many local taxes levied by the previous rulers 

He reintroduced the practice of Jaziya, an additional tax on non-Muslim subjects. He also banned the consumption of alcohol and singing in court. Under his rule, Islamic scholars compiled the Fatawa Alamgiri, which served as the Islamic law of India for several centuries.

Aurangzeb had to deal with the Rajput rulers of Marwar, Mewar, and Jaipur states. Raja Jaswant Singh of Marwar, an ally of the Mughals, was deputed to the north-western frontier, where he died fighting the Afghan rebels in 1678. With no apparent successor to the throne of Marwar, it was occupied by Aurangzeb. Meanwhile, a son of Jaswant Singh, Ajit Singh, was born and claimed the throne, which Aurangzeb refused. This began a Rajput struggle against the Mughals until Aurangzeb's successor recognized Ajit Singh as the ruler of Marwar.

Guru Tegh Bahadur, who was the ninth Sikh guru, was executed in 1675 under the orders of Aurangzeb in Delhi, India. 

Contemporary court chronicles mention that hundreds of Hindu temples were demolished by Aurangzeb or his chieftains upon his orders, including temples in Khandela, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Chittor.; and in September 1669, he ordered the destruction of one of the major Hindu temples, Kashi Vishvanath Temple at Varanasi.<ref>

Wii Sports Club

Wii Sports Club/Wii Sports 3 is a sports video game for the Wii U. It has high definition ports of the sports seen in the 2006 Wii video game "Wii Sports" which can be downloaded from the Wii U's eShop service. The first two sports, bowling and tennis, were released in Japan on October 30, 2013, in Europe and North America on November 7, 2013, and in Australia and New Zealand on November 8, 2013. Other sports will be released at a later date.

Like in "Wii Sports", players use the Wii Remote to make movements like the ones seen in sports, including tennis, bowling, baseball, golf, and boxing. However, like in "Wii Sports Resort", the player has to use the Wii MotionPlus to play the game. Players can join clubs that are of different places around the world. They can play against people in the club. Players can talk to other players with messages and drawings from the Wii U GamePad. The game is really nice because of that.

Judgment Day (2001)

Judgment Day (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on May 20, 2001 at the ARCO Arena in Sacramento, California. It was the third Judgment Day event held by the WWF.


Arrondissement of Argelès-Gazost

The arrondissement of Argelès-Gazost is an arrondissement of France. It is part of the Hautes-Pyrénées "department" in the Occitanie region. Its capital is the city of Argelès-Gazost. 

When the "arrondissements" were created in 1800, Argelès-Gazost was one of them in the Hautes-Pyrénées department.

In 1926, the "arrondissement" of Argelès-Gazost was eliminated but, in 1942, it was made again an "arrondissement".

It is the smallest of the "arrondissements" of the department with an area of , and a population 39,130 inhabitants; its population density is of inhabitants/km².

The "arrondissement" of Argelès-Gazost is bordered to the north by the "arrondissement" of Tarbes, to the east by the "arrondissement" of Bagnères-de-Bigorre, to the south by Spain and to west by the Pyrénées-Atlantiques department (Nouvelle-Aquitaine region).

After the reorganisation of the cantons in France, cantons are not subdivisions of the "arrondissements" so they could have "communes" that belong to different "arrondissements".

The three cantons found in the "arrondissement" of Argelès-Gazost have all their "communes" in the "arrondissement":


The "arrondissement" of Argelès-Gazost has 87 "communes"; they are (with their INSEE codes):
There are only 4 "communes" with more of 1,000 inhabitants in the "arrondissement"; they are:


Selfishness

Selfishness means the quality or state of being selfish and selfish means lack of consideration for other people. It is having more concern for yourself than for others. A selfish man aims at obtaining as much happiness as he can for himself and does not care whether other people are happy or unhappy. In order to attain his object, he tries to appropriate as large a share as possible of the good things of this world. It may be accompanied by a lack of empathy. Selfishness is the opposite of selflessness. It is also different, though related, to self-centredness and self-affirmation. Many psychologists approve of a healthy level of selfishness, in order for some people to stay happy.

In the study of ethics and morality, selfishness is usually considered bad. In contrast, acts of selflessness are praised. Wider debate about it, however, such as in philosophy, psychology and economics, has shown that scholars have had many different opinions about its value and consequences. In most major religions, selfishness is considered an immoral or bad habit. In Christianity, it is associated with pride, often considered the worst of the Seven deadly sins. Aristotle condemned men who would only try to profit themselves; but he approved of those who would try to gain the praise from others that he deserved.

In the context of modern-day economics, there is a much wider opinion. Bernard Mandeville has argued that the economic advancement of society depends on selfish actions. Ayn Rand argued that selfishness is a virtue and the cause of all progress.


Judgment Day (2000)

Judgment Day (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on May 20, 2000 at the Freedom Hall in Louisville, Kentucky. It was the second Judgment Day event held by the WWF and the first annual.


Arrondissement of Bagnères-de-Bigorre

The arrondissement of Bagnères-de-Bigorre is an arrondissement of France. It is part of the Hautes-Pyrénées "département" in the Occitanie region. Its capital is the city of Bagnères-de-Bigorre.

When the "arrondissements" were created in 1800, Bagnères-de-Bigorre was one of them in the Hautes-Pyrénées department.

It is the largest of the "arrondissements" of the department, with an area of , but the second in population with 46,384 inhabitants; its population density is of inhabitants/km².

The "arrondissement" of Bagnères-de-Bigorre is bordered to the north by the "arrondissement" of Tarbes, to the east by the Haute-Garonne department, to the south by Spain and to west by the "arrondissement" of Argelès-Gazost.

After the reorganisation of the cantons in France, cantons are not subdivisions of the "arrondissements" so they could have "communes" that belong to different "arrondissements".

In the "arrondissement" of Bagnères-de-Bigorre, there is only 1 canton with all its "communes" in the "arrondissement", the canton of Neste, Aure et Louron with 62 "communes". The following table shows the distribution of the "communes" in the cantons and "arrondissements":

The "arrondissement" of Bagnères-de-Bigorre has 171 "communes"; they are (with their INSEE codes):
The "communes" with more inhabitants in the "arrondissement" are:


Arrondissement of Tarbes

The arrondissement of Tarbes is an arrondissement of France. It is part of the Hautes-Pyrénées "department" in the Occitanie region. Its capital, and of the department, is the city of Tarbes.

When the Hautes-Pyrénées department was created on 17 February 1800, the "arrondissement" of Tarbes was part of that original department and was made the capital (préfecture) of it.

It is the most northern of the "arrondissements" of the department, with an area of , the second in area of the department. It is the most populated "arrondissement" with 143,753 inhabitants and a population density of inhabitants/km².

The "arrondissement" of Tarbes is bordered to the north by the Gers department, to the east by the Haute-Garonne department, to the south "arrondissement" of Bagnères-de-Bigorre, to the southwest by the "arrondissement" of Argelès-Gazost and to west by the Pyrénées-Atlantiques department.

After the reorganisation of the cantons in France, cantons are not subdivisions of the "arrondissements" so they could have "communes" that belong to different "arrondissements". In the "arrondissement" of Tarbes, there are 10 cantons with all its "communes" in the "arrondissement". The following table shows the distribution of the "communes" in the cantons and "arrondissements":

The "arrondissement" of Tarbes has 212 "communes"; they are (with their INSEE codes):
The "communes" with more inhabitants in the "arrondissement" are:


List of monarchs of Mercia

The Kingdom of Mercia was an important monarchy in the English Midlands from the 6th century to the 10th. From the mid-7th century until it ceased to exist as a kingdom, Mercia was the most powerful of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. Some of its rulers were the first to claim titles such as "King of the English" and "King of Britain". Mercia was one of the seven kingdoms of the . This is a later name given to the seven Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of England during the early Middle Ages. Besides Mercia it included Northumbria, Wessex, East Anglia, Essex, Kent, and Sussex.

The first of Mercian kings are called the Iclingas. The name comes from Icel who ruled the Mercians . Members of this dynasty claimed to be descendants the royal family of their homeland in Western Europe. Mercia became a dominant force under Penda from about until his death in 655. Bretwalda, his son, was the first Mercian overlord of the southern English. Offa (757–796), was the first of the Anglo-Saxon kings who might rightly be called "king of the English". Mercia was never again as powerful as it was during Offa's reign. For their successors in England see List of English monarchs.


When the Iclingas line died out in the male line, members of other noble Mercian families competed for the throne. The 'B' dynasty is for kings Beornwulf, Berhtwulf and Burgred. The 'W' dynasty is for king Wiglaf. Others have no dynasty they are connected with.


After being defeated by Alfred the Great, the king of Wessex, the rulers were no longer considered kings and queens but rather ealdormen. The title of the female rulers was "Lady of the Mercians." They were styled Kings and Queens in Mercia only.


After Mercia became an annex of Wessex (Mercia was no longer a kingdom), 'King of Mercia' became a title only.


Division of Hume

The Division of Hume is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales. It was one of the 75 divisions set up for the first Federal election in 1901. It was named after Hamilton Hume, one of the first Europeans to travel through the area.

The Division is in the central part of the state, north of the Australian Capital Territory. The Division covers a predominantly rural area, with agriculture and coal mining the main industries. It includes Bargo, Binalong, Boorowa, Bundanoon, Buxton, Caragabal, Colo Vale, Cootamundra, Cowra, Crookwell, Gooloogong, Goulburn, Grenfell, Gundaroo, Gunning, Harden/Murrumburrah, High Range, Hill Top, Joadja, Jugiong, Marulan, Murrumbateman, Oakdale, Picton, Quandialla, Stockinbingal, Sutton, Tahmoor, Tarago, The Oaks, Thirlmere, Wallendbeen, Wilton, Yass and Young.


Extreme Rules (2013)

Extreme Rules (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on May 19, 2013 at the Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Missouri. It was the fifth Extreme Rules event held by the WWE.

East Pakistan Central Peace Committee

East Pakistan central peace committee (, ) was one of several committees formed in 1971 by the administration of the Pakistan Army. It was created to help stop the rebellion in the former East Pakistan region (what is now Bangladesh). The rebels wanted independence for East Pakistan.

The committee was commonly known as the Peace Committee or Shanti Committee after Shanti Bahini.

USS Ronald Reagan

USS "Ronald Reagan" is a nuclear-powered naval ship in the service of the United States Navy. The ninth ship of her class, she is named in honor of former President Ronald Reagan, President of the United States from 1981 to 1989. Upon her christening in 2001, she was the first ship to be named for a former president still living at the time.

As of May 2012 the ship is operationally part of Carrier Strike Group Nine and administratively under the command of Commander, Naval Air Forces Pacific/Commander, Naval Air Forces. The two administrative titles actually refer to one command carrying out two functions.

Unlike most of the other men honored by inclusion in this group, Reagan was not associated with the United States Navy, apart from his term as Commander-in-Chief, though one of his key initiatives in office was the 600-ship Navy program. 

Ronald did not attend the christening of the "USS Ronald Reagan" because of his ill health from Alzheimer's disease. His wife, Nancy Reagan, christened the naval ship along with then-President of the United States George W. Bush.

The naval ship was on a voyage when Reagan died on June 5, 2004.


Extreme Rules (2012)

Extreme Rules (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on April 29, 2012 at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Illinois. It was the fourth Extreme Rules event held by the WWE.

Manfred Rommel

Manfred Rommel, Hon. CBE (24 December 1928 – 7 November 2013) was a German politician. He belonged to the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). He was Lord Mayor of Stuttgart from 1974 until 1996. He was the only son of Erwin Rommel and his wife Lucia Maria Mollin.

Rommel was born on 24 December 1928 in Stuttgart, Weimar Republic, Germany. He was married to Liselotte Rommel from 1954 until his death in 2013. They had a daughter, Cathrine Rommel. Rommel died on 7 November 2013 from Parkinson's disease in Stuttgart, Germany. He was 84 years old.


Amparo Rivelles

Amparo Rivelles, (real name: María Amparo Rivelles Ladrón de Guevara) (11 February 1925 – 7 November 2013) was a Spanish actress.

Rivelles was born on 11 February 1925 in Madrid, Spain.

In the beginning of her career, she was known as Amparito Rivelles.

She worked in Cinema of Mexico and in telenovelas. Grandchildren of theatre couple Jaime Rivelles and Amparo Guillén, Rivelles was the sister of famous Carlos Larrañaga actor, and aunt of Luis Merlo, Amparo Larrañaga and Pedro Larrañaga.

Rivelles died on 7 November 2013 in Madrid, Spain from unknown causes, aged 88.

Virginia Plan

The Virginia Plan was a proposal made by Virginia delegates at the Constitutional Convention of 1787. James Madison drafted the plan for a government with 3 subdivisions, or branches that would be equal in power. It also proposed states with large populations have more representatives. States with small populations would have fewer representatives. The plan called for a congress with new powers to tax and make laws. It also proposed a president and a supreme court. Ultimately, this created a strong central government separated into three branches. The resolutions went well beyond making minor changes to the Articles of Confederation. It succeeded in expanding the debate to include basic changes to the structure and powers of the national government. The plan was made by James Madison in 1789
Later on, the Virginia plan was modified and accepted as the United States Constitution. 

Brian Pillman

Brian William Pillman (May 22, 1962 – October 5, 1997) was an American professional wrestler and football player. He is known for competing in World Championship Wrestling, Extreme Championship Wrestling and the World Wrestling Federation in the 1990s.

He was well known as "The Loose Cannon", which was a gimmick that would see him do worked shoots that would gain him infamy for his unpredictable character.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Pillman played football in the NFL for the Cincinnati Bengals and in the CFL for the Calgary Stampeders.

Pillman was found dead by police in his Bloomington, Minnesota hotel room on October 5, 1997 from a previously undetected heart condition called arteriosclerotic heart disease. That same night, Pillman was supposed to face Dude Love on the WWF pay-per-view .

His son Brian Pillman Jr. now wrestles for WWE (formerly the WWF), on their NXT brand under the ring name Lexis King. He has also worked for All Elite Wrestling (AEW) and Major League Wrestling (MLW).



Third-person view

In video games, third-person means the game shows the playable character on screen, allowing the camera to freely move around them. This view is most common in action and action-adventure games.


Lythronax

Lythronax is an extinct genus of tyrannosaurid theropod dinosaur. It lived about 80 million years ago (mya) in what is now southern Utah. "L. argestes" is the oldest known tyrannosaurid based on its stratigraphic position.

Comparisons to its close relatives suggest that "Lythronax" would have been about long, with a weight of around and had a large skull filled with sharp teeth. 

The rostrum is comparatively short: it makes up less than two thirds of the total skull length. The whole skull is very broad, 0.4 times as wide as long. Overall, the skull is similar to that of "Tyrannosaurus" and "Tarbosaurus". Its robust jaws have two sizes of teeth: its first five teeth are much larger than the other six. Behind the skull, the rest of the skeleton is similar to that of other tyrannosaurids.

Hudson Institute

The Hudson Institute is an American conservative non-profit think tank based in Washington D.C. It was founded in 1961 in Croton-on-Hudson, New York, by futurist, military strategist, and systems theorist Herman Kahn and his colleagues at the RAND Corporation.

The Institute is committed to innovative research and analysis that promotes ‘global security, prosperity and freedom’. It promotes public policy change in accordance with its stated values: 

The Capital Research Center, gives Hudson a 7 on its ideological spectrum (8 is "Free Market Right" and 1 is "Radical Left").

In March 2011, Kenneth R. Weinstein was appointed president and CEO of the institute replacing Herbert London.

RAND Corporation

The RAND Corporation is a nonprofit global policy think tank first formed to offer research and analysis to the United States Armed Forces. The RAND was started in 1946 inside the Douglas Aircraft Company. It was set up as an independent corporation in 1948. The name was taken from R&D (research and development), though in fact it did no development. 

Since the 1950s, RAND research has helped form United States policy decisions on many issues: the space race, the U.S.-Soviet nuclear arms confrontation, the creation of the Great Society social welfare programs, the digital revolution, and national health care. It was best known for the doctrine of nuclear deterrence by mutually assured destruction (MAD), based upon their work with game theory. Chief strategist Herman Kahn discussed the idea of a "winnable" nuclear exchange in his 1960 book "On Thermonuclear War". This led to Kahn being one of the models for "Dr Strangelove" in "". In the movie, RAND is spoofed as the "BLAND Corporation".

The RAND is now financed by the U.S. government and private endowment, corporations, the healthcare industry, universities, and private individuals. 

The organization now works with other governments, private foundations, international organizations, and commercial organizations on a host of non-defence issues. RAND techniques were based on operations research (O.R.) which started in World War II. O.R. is the interdisciplinary application of scientific thinking to problem-solving. It relies mostly on the hard sciences like physics and mathematics, and economics. However, some famous biologists and social scientists have worked with RAND at times, and the importance of social ideas and thinking is more important than ever today.

RAND has about 1,700 employees and three principal North American locations: Santa Monica, California (headquarters); Arlington, Virginia; and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The RAND Gulf States Policy Institute has offices in New Orleans, Louisiana, and Jackson, Mississippi. RAND Europe is located in Cambridge, England, and Brussels, Belgium. The RAND-Qatar Policy Institute is in Doha, Qatar. RAND's newest office is in Boston, Massachusetts.

RAND is also home to the Pardee RAND School, which is the world's largest Ph.D.-granting program in policy analysis. Unlike many other universities, all PARDEE RAND Graduate School students receive fellowships in order to cover their education costs. RAND also offers a number of internship and fellowship programs allowing students and outsiders to assist in conducting research for RAND projects. Most of these projects are short-term and are worked on independently with the mentoring of a RAND staff members.

RAND publishes the "RAND Journal of Economics", a peer-reviewed journal of economics.

To date, 32 winners of a Nobel Prize, mainly in economics and physics, have been associated with the RAND at some point in their career.

Siouxsie Sioux

Siouxsie Sioux (born Susan Janet Ballion, 27 May 1957), is an English singer-songwriter. She is best known as the lead singer of rock band Siouxsie and the Banshees (1976–1996). They released 11 studio albums in their career and two UK top ten singles, "Hong Kong Garden" and "Dear Prudence". 

In 1981, Sioux and drummer Budgie made a side-project called The Creatures. They released four studio albums and broke up in 2005. In 1994 she released a single with Morrissey called "Interlude". That year she also sang on a Hector Zazou song called "The Lighthouse". In 2004 she started performing on her own as Siouxsie. Her first solo album, "Mantaray", was released in 2007. In June 2013 she performed for the first time in five years at the Royal Festival Hall in London. 

She plays guitar, piano, bass, and percussion. Her voice is in the coloratura contralto range.

In 1991 Sioux married Budgie, the Banshees' drummer. She said in an interview with "The Sunday Times" in 2007 that they had divorced. She lives in France.


Brookings Institution

The Brookings Institution is an American think tank based in Washington, D.C. in the United States. One of Washington's oldest think tanks, Brookings conducts research and education in the social sciences, mainly in economics, policy, government, foreign policy, and global economy and development. In the University of Pennsylvania’s "2012 Global go-to think tanks report", Brookings is ranked the most influential think tank in the world.

Its mission is:

Brookings states that its scholars "represent diverse points of view" and describes itself as non-partisan. The media describe Brookings as "liberal-centrist" or "centrist". An analysis of Congressional records from 1993 to 2002 found that Brookings was referenced by conservative politicians almost as often as liberal politicians. It got a score of 53 on a 1-100 scale with 100 the most liberal score. The same study found Brookings to be the most frequently cited think tank by the U.S. media and politicians.

Robert Smith

Robert James Smith (born 21 April 1957) is an English musician. He is best known for being the lead singer of The Cure. He has been the only constant member in the band's 37-year history. They have released 13 studio albums and 10 EPs. Their biggest UK hit so far is "Lullaby", which reached number 5. Their biggest US hit is "Lovesong". In 1983, he released an album called "Blue Sunshine" with Alberto y Lost Trios Paranoias' John Scott under the name The Glove. He has worked with other bands like Crystal Castles. He has also sung songs on his own for movie soundtracks.

Smith can play guitar, bass guitar, double bass, keyboard, violin, flute and trumpet. He has a tenor vocal range. He is married to Mary Poole, who he met at the age of 14 in a drama class.

Smith was born in Blackpool, Lancashire. In 1960, his family moved to Trafford, Manchester. In 1963, they moved to Salford, Manchester. He was raised Catholic but later became an atheist. His first band, The Salford Goat Band, was at the age of 14. In 1976, Smith was a member of a punk rock band called Malice. Smith then formed a band with members of Malice called Easy Cure. In 1978 they became The Cure. In 1979 they released their first album, "Three Imaginary Boys". It got good reviews. In 1999, Smith was going to end The Cure but Ross Robinson persuaded him not to. 

Tim Burton gave Smith the Shockwaves NME Godlike Genius Award in 2006.

There have been lots of references to Smith in pop culture. In 2004 in episode 11 of series 2 of "The Mighty Boosh" Vince Noir says to Howard Moon that he can spend the evening with two goth girls if he dresses like a goth. Vince gives Howard a can of "Goth Juice: the most powerful hairspray known to man, made from the tears of Robert Smith". Lush made a hair gel inspired by this called Goth Juice that says 'made from the tears of Robert Smith' on the pot, but they don't make it anymore. 

Smith appeared in the twelfth episode of season 1 of "South Park", "Mecha-Streisand" in 1998. At the time the episode brought South Park their biggest number of viewers for an episode to date.

Royal United Services Institute

The Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies (RUSI) is a British defence and security think tank. 

It was founded in 1831 by the Duke of Wellington. RUSI describes itself as "the leading forum in the UK for national and international Defence and Security". It won Prospect Magazine's Think Tank of the Year Award 2008. In 2009, the same magazine named RUSI "Foreign Policy Think Tank of the Year". In 2011 RUSI celebrated its 180th Anniversary.
RUSI's Director is Michael Clarke and its President is HRH the Duke of Kent.

Zazen

Zazen (literally "seated meditation"; ; ) is a form of meditation in Zen Buddhism. It can calm the body and the mind.

Sarah Fimm

Sarah Fimm is a singer-songwriter from Oklahoma. She lives in Woodstock, New York. She has released six albums. Her first album, "Cocooned", was released in 2001.

Guennol Lioness

The Guennol Lioness is a 5,000-year-old Mesopotamian statue found near Baghdad, Iraq. It shows the form of a muscular anthropomorphic lioness-woman.

The sculpture sold for $57.2 million at Sotheby's auction house on December 5, 2007. The sculpture was on loan to the Brooklyn Museum of Art until it was purchased at auction by an English collector.

The limestone sculpture is just over 8 cm (3.25 in) tall. It was described by Sotheby's as "one of the last known masterworks from the dawn of civilization remaining in private hands". One day before the auction, experts had been estimating that the highest bid would be between $14 million and $18 million.

At the time of its 2007 sale, the price paid at auction for the Guennol Lioness was the highest paid for a sculpture to that date. It easily exceeded the record of Pablo Picasso's "Tete de femme (Dora Maar)". On 3 February 2010, however, the second edition of the cast of the sculpture "L'Homme qui marche I" (Walking Man I) by Alberto Giacometti sold for £65,001,250 ($104,327,006) and overtook the Guennol Lioness as the most expensive sculpture ever sold at auction.

This lioness-woman sculpture is an Elamite figure believed to have been created about 3000–2800 B.C. Its historical significance is that it was made about the same time as the first known use of the wheel, the development of cuneiform writing, and the emergence of the first cities.

Many ancient Near East deities were represented as anthropomorphic figures. Such images evoked the Mesopotamian belief in attaining power over the physical world by combining the superior physical attributes of various species. It is possible that the nearby Sumerians borrowed this powerful artistic hybrid from the Proto-Elamites. The lioness was the frequent subject of veneration among cultures familiar with the well-coordinated hunting of female lions.

Lana Del Rey

Elizabeth Woolridge Grant (born June 21, 1985), also known as her stage name Lana Del Rey, is an American singer and songwriter from New York. She has released nine albums and four EPs since 2008.

Elizabeth Woolridge Grant (Lana Del Rey) was born on June 21, 1985, in Manhattan, New York City. 

Del Rey was raised Catholic. She sang in her Church choir when she was young. She was the cantor. When she was fourteen, she was sent to Kent School, a boarding school in Connecticut, to deal with her alcoholism. she was offered a chance at university, but chose to skip a year and move with her aunt and uncle as a waitress.

When she was 19, she moved to the Bronx to study metaphysics at Fordham University.

Lana Del Rey made many demos before signing to a record label. This includes a demo album called "Sirens" in 2006.

Del Rey released her first EP, "Kill Kill", in 2008. She used the name Lizzy Grant. Two years later, she released her first album, titled "Lana Del Ray", under an indie label called 5 Points Records. This is the only album where "Rey" was spelled as "Ray" in her name. However, the album was deleted three months after.

She released her first single as Lana Del Rey, "Video Games", in August 2011. It reached number one in the singles charts in six countries. Her second album "Born to Die" was released in January 2012. It reached number 1 on the UK Albums Chart. "Born to Die" was re-released in November 2012 as "". It had eight new songs. The new songs were also available as a separate EP called "Paradise." The EP was nominated for Best Pop Vocal album at the Grammys. In 2013, she made a song called "Young and Beautiful" for "The Great Gatsby" soundtrack. It was nominated for the "Best Song Written for Visual Media" Grammy. Del Rey made a short movie called "Tropico" and released it in December 2013. It has songs from her "Paradise" EP in it. Her third album, "Ultraviolence", was released in 2014.

Her fourth album, , was released in 2015. Her fifth album, "Lust for Life," was released in 2017. "Lust for Life" was her first album to also have other artists sing on it. It included duets with The Weeknd, ASAP Rocky, Playboi Carti, Stevie Nicks, and Sean Ono Lennon. 

Her sixth album, "Norman Fucking Rockwell!", was released in 2019. The album was well-received by critics. In 2020, she released a poetry book called "Violet Bent Backwards over the Grass" and a spoken word album to go along with it. Her seventh album, "Chemtrails Over the Country Club", was released in March 2021. Then her eighth album, "Blue Banisters", was released in October of the same year. 

On March 2023, Lana Del Rey released her ninth album, "Did You Know That There's a Tunnel Under Ocean Blvd". 

Albums:
EPs:




Kelly Chen

Kelly Chen Wai-lam (born 13 September 1972) is a Hong Kong Cantopop singer and actress. She sings in Cantonese, English, Japanese, and Mandarin. She has released thirty-two studio albums. In 2009 the World Economic Forum chose her as one of the year's "Young Global Leaders". She has appeared in many TV commercials. She is signed to the record label Go East Entertainment Ltd, HK. In 2002 she started the Kelly Chen Children Education Fund. 


Aminah

Aminah bint Wahb ( ; died 577 AD) was the mother of the prophet Muhammad.

Léa Seydoux

Léa Hélène Seydoux-Fornier de Clausonne (born 1 July 1985) is a French actress. In 2013, she won the Palme d'Or prize at the Cannes Film Festival for the movie "Blue Is the Warmest Colour". She is also known for her role as Bond girl Madeleine Swann in "Spectre" (2015), and reprise the role in "No Time to Die" (2021).

St. Bees School

St. Bees School is a boarding school for boys and girls aged 4-18 in St. Bees, a West Cumbrian village. It was started in 1583 by the then Archbishop of Canterbury, Edmund Grindal as a boys' "free grammar school". The term 'free' did not mean that the school didn't charge the students, but that the school wasn't ruled by the Church. In 1976 the school became open to girls. The school grounds are about 250 acres (1,000,000 m2).
In 2013, 100% of GCSEs were A*-C, and 43% were A*/A. The school has a swimming pool which can be used by people who don't go to the school.

Extreme Rules (2010)

Extreme Rules (2010) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment. It was held on April 25, 2010 at the 1st Mariner Arena in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the second Extreme Rules event held by the WWE.

Daughter (band)

Daughter is an English indie rock band from London. They released their first album "If You Leave" in 2013, which reached 16 in the UK Albums Chart. 

At first, Daughter was just a name for the music of singer Elena Tonra. Then Tonra met guitarist Igor Haefeli and drummer Remi Aguilella at London's the Institute of Contemporary Music Performance and made Daughter a band. Haefeli is Tonra's boyfriend. In April 2011 they released their first EP, "His Young Heart". On October 2 2011 their second EP was released by Communion Records. In 2012 they were signed to the British record label 4AD. Daughter's first single "Smother" was released in 2012. "Youth" was played in UK drama "Skins" in the eighth episode of series six and in "Grey's Anatomy" and" Mistresses". 

In March 2013 Daughter's first album "If You Leave" was released by 4AD. It got mostly good reviews.

Daughter performed at the John Peel stage at Glastonbury Festival 2013. This was the first time they were on UK TV. They are currently touring Europe.

On 28 October 2013 the fourth single was released from "If You Leave", "Amsterdam".

"Human", the third single from "If You Leave", is on Zane Lowe's 100 Hottest Records of 2013.

In December 2013 NME put "If You Leave" on their list of 50 Best Albums Of 2013.






Xiu Xiu

Xiu Xiu is an American band formed in 2002. The members are Jamie Stewart, the band's only constant member, Shayna Dunkelman, Ches Smith, and Angela Seo. They have released 9 studio albums.

They released their first album, "Knife Play", in 2002. Pitchfork gave the album a score of 8.3/10. In 2008 they released "Women As Lovers". The sixth song on the album, "Under Pressure", is a cover of a 1981 song by Queen and David Bowie. Michael Gera sings in it. The version of the album on American iTunes has seven extra tracks.

They released their ninth album, "Always", in 2012. On December 2 2012 they released an album of covers of Nina Simone songs called "Nina". Xiu Xiu released their ninth studio album "Angel Guts: Red Classroom" on February 4, 2014. "Unclouded Sky" will be released later in 2014.


Bath Spa railway station

Bath Spa railway station is the main railway station in the city of Bath, Somerset, in South West England It's served by First Great Western, South West Trains and CrossCountry. It is on the Great Western Main Line and joins the Wessex Main Line via Bradford-on-Avon.

There are plans to electrify the Great Western mainline, which would make trains faster and bigger, shortening journey times. This will also make the journey a lot quicker and smoother.

First Great Western has manage Bath Spa. As of 2005, the main building is listed (protected). Building work has taken place at the station, like changes to the building, with the more lifts to the platforms. They also have ticket barriers.

There were other changes in 2011 with a new bus station, and change some of the station car parks into a restaurant complex, costing £12 million. 

Philotes (mythology)

Philotes () was a minor Greek goddess. She was a daughter of Nyx. She is the personification of affection, sexual intercourse and friendship.

Jushin Liger

He mainly worked for New Japan Pro Wrestling. He worked for them from 1984 until he retired in 2020. He has competed many different professional wrestling companies in Japan and North America.

Liger worked for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) from 1991 to 1999. During his time in WCW, he won the WCW Light Heavyweight Championship when he defeated then-champion Brian Pillman during a house show in Atlanta, Georgia on December 25, 1991. He held the title for 2 months and was defeated Pillman at SuperBrawl II. He also challenged Konnan for the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship at Slamboree '96 but lost the match.

He also competed for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) from 2005 to 2006. Liger captained the New Japan team in the TNA 2006 World X Cup Tournament. They defeated Petey Williams, captain of Team Canada at TNA Sacrifice on May 14, 2006 using a Crash Thunder Buster when Williams was distracted by the rest of Team Japan. Liger was eliminated in the X-Cup Gauntlet later in the same night and Team Japan was not able to gain any points in the match as it was won by Team Canada with Team Mexico as runners up.

On March 7, 2019, Liger said that he was going to retire after Wrestle Kingdom 14. At Wrestle Kingdom 14, Liger wrestled in his last match. He teamed with Naoki Sano and they lost to Hiromu Takahashi and Ryu Lee.

Liger was the innovator of the Shooting star press. The Jushin Liger gimmick is based on an extremely popular anime superhero, Jushin Liger.



Suffolk Coastal

Suffolk Coastal is a local government district in Suffolk, England. Its council is based in Woodbridge. Other towns include Felixstowe. It was organized on April 1, 1974.

Guernésiais

Guernésiais is a Norman language spoken on the Channel island of Guernsey. It is related to the Jèrriais language on nearby Jersey island. It is part of the Oïl languages family. Only 2% of the island's people speak the language.

The most recent dictionary of Guernésais, "Dictiounnaire Angllais-guernesiais" by Marie de Garis, was released in 1967. It was revised in 1982.

No Way Out (2012)

No Way Out (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on June 17, 2012 at the Izod Center in East Rutherford, New Jersey. It was the twelfth No Way Out event held by the WWE. 


Luke Harper

Jon Huber (December 16, 1979 – December 26, 2020), better known by his ring name Luke Harper, was an American professional wrestler. In WWE he was a one-time WWE Intercontinental Champion and a three-time Tag Team Champion.

Huber also wrestled under the ring name Brodie Lee, working for promotions such as All Elite Wrestling, Alpha-1 Wrestling, Chikara, Combat Zone Wrestling, Dragon Gate USA, Jersey All Pro Wrestling and Ring of Honor. He was born in Rochester, New York.

On March 12, 2012, it was reported that Huber had signed a developmental contract with WWE. He made his debut for WWE's developmental territory Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) at a house show on May 18, working under the new ring name Luke Harper. When FCW changed its name to NXT Wrestling, he debuted on the December 12, 2012 episode of NXT as a follower of Bray Wyatt, who introduced Rowan as his "first son".

Erick Rowan was later introduced as Wyatt's "second son" and Harper started to team with Rowan. They defeated Percy Watson and Yoshi Tatsu on the January 9, 2013 episode of NXT and defeated them again on the January 23 episode of NXT in the first round of the NXT Tag Team Championship tournament. Harper and Rowan defeated Bo Dallas and Michael McGillicutty in the semi-finals but were defeated in the finals by Adrian Neville and Oliver Grey. Harper and Rowan won a triple threat elimination tag match on the May 2 episode of NXT and defeated Neville and Bo Dallas who replaced the injured Grey, on the May 8 NXT (taped on May 2) to win the tag titles. On June 20, they lost the NXT Tag Team Championship to Adrian Neville and Corey Graves.

In 2013, scary videos played on Raw to promote the upcoming debut of the Wyatt Family and they debuted on the July 8 episode of Raw when they attacked Kane. He made his WWE in-ring debut in a tag team match on the July 26 episode of SmackDown, where he and Rowan defeated Tons of Funk (Brodus Clay and Tensai). Harper and Rowan defeated many teams for a couple months but suffered their first loss on the October 11 episode of SmackDown from Cody Rhodes and Goldust.

On the September 29, 2014 episode of "Raw", a video played where Wyatt set Harper free, saying that he fixed him and gave him a reason to exist. On the November 10 episode of "Raw", Harper made his TV return, throwing an unconscious Dolph Ziggler at Triple H and Stephanie McMahon's feet, and expressed his desire to join their team at Survivor Series against John Cena's team.

On the November 17 episode of Raw, he joined Team Authority and was immediately given a match for the Intercontinental Championship against Dolph Ziggler. Harper would win the match and his first singles championship in the WWE. Harper lost the title back to Ziggler in a ladder match at TLC: Tables, Ladders and Chairs, ending his reign at 27 days.

Huber died on December 26, 2020 from idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, ten days after his 41st birthday. He was hospitalized for non-COVID-related lung problems in Jacksonville, Florida.



Apate

In Greek mythology, Apate was the personification of deceit. She was one of the evil spirits released from Pandora's box. Her mother was Nyx, the personification of night. Her father was Erebos, the personification of darkness.


Olympe de Gouges

Olympe de Gouges (; born Marie Gouze; 7 May 17483 November 1793) was a French activist, feminist, playwright, and political writer.

She was born in Balbrigan, France. De Gouges never went to school. She had strong opinions about politics, and she liked to write about her opinions.  

In 1765, when de Gouges was 17, she married a French officer, named Louis Aubrey, who was older than her. They had one child together. Three years later, Louis died in a flood. De Gouges was relieved, and never married again.

De Gouges wanted to be a writer. So, she moved to Paris, and left her son behind. She made a writer name out of her parents names mixed together.

She used high ranking men to gain power. When she started writing, she wrote plays, political documents, and novels. Some of her work was: "Le Mariage inattendu de Cheacute;rubin and Zamore et Mirza ou l'Heureux naufrage."

She started to write documents about human rights, mostly for women.  At the time, France was divided about rights. De Gouges may not have saved her country, but she did give her opinion to this debate.

Stanley Milgram

Stanley Milgram (August 15, 1933 – December 20, 1984) was an American social psychologist. He is most famous for his controversial study about obedience to authority figures. In these experiments, Milgram showed that about two out of three people would follow orders of an authority figure to the point of risking the life of, or perhaps even killing, an innocent person. He got the idea from the Holocaust. He wrote a book about his experiments called "Obedience to Authority".

The idea of six degrees of separation comes from Milgram's 1967 small-world experiment. It has been criticized a lot, but in 2008 Microsoft found that the average chain of contacts between users of its '.NET Messenger Service' was 6.6 people. A study published in the January 2014 volume of "Computers in Human Behavior" found that the average number of acquaintances separating people in unusual jobs is 3.9, and 3.2 for average Facebook users.

Milgram was born to a Jewish family in New York City.

Theodor W. Adorno

Theodor W. Adorno (; ; born Theodor Ludwig Wiesengrund; 11 September 1903 – 6 August 1969) was a German sociologist, philosopher, composer, and music theorist. 

He designed the F-scale with other researchers at the University of California. This scale tried to measure "the authoritarian personality", the "F" standing for "Fascist". He wrote about this in the 1950 book "The Authoritarian Personality." He was a Marxist.

Nipissing University

Nipissing University is a university in Ontario, Canada. It is located in located in North Bay, Ontario.


Typhoon Haiyan

Typhoon Haiyan (or Typhoon Yolanda in the Philippines) is one of the strongest tropical cyclones in history. It formed on November 3, 2013, in the western Pacific Ocean. It began east-southeast of Pohnpei. The storm later hit the Philippines with extremely high winds and a strong storm surge. It has caused major damage in the Visayas. At least 6,241 people died in the storm. The director of Meteorology at Weather Underground, Jeff Masters, said this could be the strongest tropical system to reach land. Haiyan's winds were near 195 miles an hour.

Cessna 140

The Cessna 140 is a light civilian aircraft. It was designed and built in USA between 1946 and 1950. At least more than 7600 examples were built. It's a single-engine plane with a high wing.

Kibera

Kibera is a slum in southwest Nairobi, Kenya. It is often called the biggest slum in Africa. Most people in Kibera don't have running water or electricity. Kibera has thirteen villages. It is a very poor slum and has very bad conditions.

Curt Hennig

Curtis Michael "Curt" Hennig (March 28, 1958 – February 10, 2003) was an American professional wrestler, manager and color commentator. He is known for competing in the American Wrestling Association (AWA), World Wrestling Federation (WWF), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He competed under his real name and under the ring name, Mr. Perfect.

He was the son of wrestler Larry "The Axe" Hennig. He was the father of former WWE superstar Joe "Curtis Axel" Hennig. He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Major League Baseball player and longtime friend Wade Boggs in 2007. He is considered to be one of the greatest ever in-ring performers.



Kate Bush

Catherine "Kate" Bush (born 30 July 1958) is an English singer-songwriter. In 1978, her first single "Wuthering Heights" was Number 1 in the UK for a month, making her the first woman to have a No.1 in the UK with a song she had written by herself. She has released ten studio albums and 25 UK hit singles. She is also known for her 1985 single "Running Up That Hill".

Bush was born in Welling, Kent and raised in East Wickham. At the age of 11 she taught herself piano. At 13 she was writing songs, some of which featured on her first album.

In July 1976 Bush was signed to EMI. Bush's first album "The Kick Inside "was released 17 February 1978 and reached number three in the UK album charts. The album had her brother Paddy playing harmonica and mandolin. She released her second album "Lionheart" nine months afterwards. It reached number six in the UK album chart. 
In 1979 she did The Tour of Life, her only tour until August 2014. 

In 1980 she had her first UK No.1 album, "Never for Ever". "Babooshka" was the best-selling single from the album. It reached number five in the UK and was the 20th best-selling single of the year in Australia. 

In 1982 her fourth album, "The Dreaming", was released. It was the first album she had produced. It was also her first album to enter the US "Billboard" 200 chart. It went straight to number 3 in the UK chart but it is her lowest-selling album so far. 

"Hounds of Love<nowiki>'</nowiki>"s" "1985 release gave Bush her second No.1 album. It is her best-selling studio album so far. Its first single, "Running Up That Hill", was her most successful 1980s release. It reached No.3 in the UK, her second highest chart place for a single ever. In 1986 it was used as the theme tune for the BBC children's drama "Running Scared". In 2022, the song became popular again when it was used in the Netflix series "Stranger Things" which resulted in the song reaching No.1 in many countries including the UK. "The Whole Story", a collection of her "greatest hits" so far, was released and reached No.1 in the UK chart.
1989's "The Sensual World "reached number 2 in the UK album chart. It" "is Bush's best-selling album in the US. 

In 1990 she played a bride called Angela in a comedy film, "Les Dogs". 

In 1993 Bush released "The Red Shoes", her last album for twelve years. Bush released a short film called "The Line, the Cross and the Curve" in 1994.

Her eighth studio album and first double album, "Aerial", was released on CD and vinyl in 2005. It took nine years to make. 

In 2007 she was asked to write a song for The Golden Compass soundtrack. It was played in the credits at the end of the film. 

In 2011 she released two albums, "Director's Cut" and "50 Words for Snow " on her own record label Fish People. 

"Director's Cut" is made of songs from "The Sensual World" and "The Red Shoes". They have been remixed and three have been re-recorded. It got mostly good reviews.

"50 Words for Snow" got good responses from critics and won the 2012 Best Album at the South Bank Arts Awards.

On 26 August 2014 Bush performed her first concert in 35 years.

Bush lives in Devon with her husband Dan McIntosh and son Albert "Bertie" Jack, who was born in 1998.








Aethelred I of Mercia

Aethelred, also Æthelred or Ethelred, ( 716) was an early King of Mercia. He succeeded his brother Wulfhere when he died in 675. Like his brother, Wulfhere, he was considered an overlord over other English kings. But he never reached the same political status as Wulfhere. His importance was in his contributions to the church. Aethelred ruled Mercia until his in 704. He stepped down to retire to the monastery at Bardney.

Aethelred was a son of King Penda. At about the same time he succeeded his brother to the throne he married Osthryth, daughter of Oswiu of Northumbria. Aethelred attacked Kent in 676 to get Hlothhere of Kent back in line as a vassal of Mercia. He destroyed much of that kingdom as well as sacked Rochester. In 679 Aethelred continued the struggle his father and brother had with Northumbria. He found Ecgfrith of Northumbria waiting for him on the River Trent which divided north and south Mercia. In the battle, Aelfwine, the younger brother of King Ecgfrith was killed and the Northumbrians were defeated. To prevent a blood feud between the two royal families, Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury stepped in to prevent further bloodshed. He secured a truce between Northumbria and Mercia that lasted for 50 years. For the rest of his reign Aethelred was respected as overlord of England even though Bede never listed him among the seven .

Aethelred was very involved in the church. He and his wife Osthryth founded Bardney abbey in Lindsey. Queen Osthryth had the bones of her uncle, Oswald of Northumbria, brought to Bardney to be buried there. This caused some resentment by the monks who at first refused to accept his bones. But they were accepted and buried in the church with all the honors due a saint. Aethelred was a close friend of Wilfrid of York. In 691 Aethelred gave the bishop sanctuary in Mercia after his exile from Northumbria. While welcomed by Aethelred he was not by Queen Osthryth. Wilfred was an old enemy of her brother king Ecgfrith of Northumbria. But Ostryth was not completely accepted in Mercia. She created the cult of Saint Oswald in Mercia which did little to help Mercians forget old feuds with Northumbria. In 697, Queen Osthryth was murdered by Mercian noblemen. She was suspected of having some part in the murder of Peada forty years earlier. By this time she had become a nun and had given up married life. In 704 Aethelred stepped down as king to become a monk. His nephew Cenred became King after him. Aethelred retired to the monastery of Bardney where his wife Osthryth had been buried. He became the abbot of Bardney although he remained aware of Mercian politics. Two years after giving up the throne he called his nephew, King Cenred, to Bardsley to ask him to remain on good terms with his old friend Bishop Wilfrid. Aethelred died in 716.

Athelred married Ostryth of Northumbria. Athelred may have married a second time. He had two known children but by which wife is uncertain:



Erick Rowan

Joseph Ruud (born November 28, 1981 in Minneapolis, Minnesota) better known by his ring name Erick Rowan, is an American professional wrestler. He competed in WWE from 2011 to 2020, where he was a member of The Wyatt Family along with Bray Wyatt, Luke Harper, Daniel Bryan and Randy Orton. He began performing as Erick Redbeard on the independent circuit and for All Elite Wrestling in 2022.

Rudd competed in various independent promotions in both the United States and Japan before signing to the WWE. In 2007, he worked for Pro Wrestling Noah in Japan under the ring name, Thoruf. After his time with them was done, he returned to the United States and started competing for F1rst Wrestling under the ring name, Thoruf Marius. During his time there he feuded with Brody Hoofer.

He signed a developmental contract with WWE and was assigned to their developmental territory Florida Championship Wrestling and started competing under the ring name Erick Rowan. He debuted on FCW TV debut in August 2011 when he defeated Kenneth Cameron. When FCW was rebranded into NXT Wrestling, he debuted on the December 12, 2012 episode of NXT as a follower of Bray Wyatt, who introduced Rowan as his "second son".

As a member of the Wyatt Family, he teamed with Wyatt's "first son" Luke Harper. They defeated Percy Watson and Yoshi Tatsu on the January 9, 2013 episode of NXT and defeated them again on the January 23 episode of NXT in the first round of the NXT Tag Team Championship tournament. Rowan and Harper defeated Bo Dallas and Michael McGillicutty in the semi-finals but were defeated in the finals by Adrian Neville and Oliver Grey. Harper and Rowan won a triple threat elimination tag match on the May 2 episode of NXT and defeated Neville and Bo Dallas, filling in for the injured Grey, on the May 8 NXT (taped on May 2) to win the tag titles. On June 20, they lost the NXT Tag Team Championship to Adrian Neville and Corey Graves.

Vignettes became appearing on Raw to promote the upcoming debut of the Wyatt Family and they debuted on the July 8 episode of Raw when they attacked Kane. He made his WWE in-ring debut in a tag team match on the July 26 episode of SmackDown, where he and Harper defeated Tons of Funk (Brodus Clay and Tensai). Rowan and Harper went on a winning streak over many teams for a couple months but suffered their first lost on the October 11 episode of SmackDown from Cody Rhodes and Goldust.

R. Budd Dwyer

Robert Budd Dwyer (November 21, 1939 – January 22, 1987) was an American politician. He served from 1971 to 1981 as a Republican member of the Pennsylvania State Senate representing the state's 50th district. He served as the 30th Treasurer of Pennsylvania from January 20, 1981 to January 22, 1987. 

On January 22, 1987, Dwyer called a news conference in the Pennsylvania state capital of Harrisburg where he killed himself in front of the gathered reporters with a .357 caliber revolver. Dwyer's suicide was also broadcast to a wide television audience across the state of Pennsylvania.

In the early 1980s, Pennsylvania discovered its state workers had overpaid federal taxes due to errors in state withholding. Many accounting firms competed for a multimillion-dollar contract to determine compensation to each employee. 

In 1986, Dwyer was convicted of receiving a bribe from a California firm trying to gain the contract. Throughout his trial and after his conviction, he maintained that he was innocent of the charge and that he had been framed. Dwyer was scheduled to be sentenced on those charges on January 23, 1987, the day after his suicide.


P. L. Travers

Pamela Lyndon Travers OBE (Helen Lyndon Goff; 9 August 1899 – 23 April 1996) was an Australian-British writer, actress, and journalist. 

Travers was known for writing the 1933 successful children's book "Mary Poppins" and the seven sequels that followed. She worked with Walt Disney to make the 1964 movie version of the series, "Mary Poppins". 

Travers was born on 9 August 1899 in Maryborough, Queensland. She studied at Normanhurst Girls School. She adopted one son from Ireland, Camillus Travers Hone. He died in 2011. Travers died on 23 April 1996 in her London, England home from an epileptic seizure, aged 96.


New York City Marathon

The New York City Marathon (called the ING New York City Marathon because it is sponsored by financial company ING Group) is a yearly marathon that goes through all five boroughs of New York City. The distance of the race is 26.219 miles. It starts at the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and ends at Columbus Circle. It takes place on the first Sunday of November. It is one of the largest marathons in the world. 50,304 people ran the marathon in 2013. It has been held every year since 1970 except for 2012, when the race was cancelled because of Hurricane Sandy.


Bábism

Bábism is a religion. It was started in Persia in the middle of the 19th century. The founder was Mirza Ali Muhamed Reza ash-Shirazi. He claimed to be a kind of savior for Shi'a Muslims. He took the title "Báb" (), meaning "gate" in Persian. Bábism was originally based on his interpretation of the Quran and other Islamic texts. There were similar movements like this, but the Bábí movement tried to break with Islam to start a new religion. It was opposed by the government in Persia, which used laws and violence to destroy it. Bábism continued in exile in the Ottoman Empire. It led to the creation of Azali Babism and the Bahá'í Faith.

Roman Reigns

Leati Joseph "Joe" Anoa'i (born May 25, 1985 in Pensacola, Florida), better known by his ring name Roman Reigns, is an American professional wrestler and former American football player. He is currently signed to WWE, where he performs on the SmackDown brand and is managed by Paul Heyman. He is the current and longest-reigning WWE Universal Champion in his second reign and the current WWE Champion in his fourth reign (both championhips are combined as the Undisputed WWE Universal Championship since WrestleMania 38 in April 2022). He is also the leader of The Bloodline stable and a member of the Anoaʻi family which is a renowned Samoan-American wrestling dynasty. Reigns was a member of The Shield along with Dean Ambrose and Seth Rollins from 2012 to June 2, 2014 before reuniting again in 2017 and 2019. 

His current reign of days as Universal Champion is the fourth-longest world title reign in WWE history and the longest championship reign of any title in WWE since 1988. He is also a former United States Intercontinental and WWE Tag Team Champion (all held one time), the 2015 Royal Rumble winner, the 28th Triple Crown Champion and the 17th Grand Slam Champion. Reigns has been in the last match of many premium live events, including WWE's biggest yearly event, WrestleMania. He is praised for playing his current heel character. However, he was criticized when he played a face from 2014 to 2020.

Before he started his professional wrestling career, Anoa'i played football at the Georgia Institute of Technology and was named first-team All-ACC his senior year. He went drafted in the 2007 NFL Draft but ended up being signed by the Minnesota Vikings. He was picked up by the Jacksonville Jaguars to provide depth at defensive end to their roster and in 2008 he was signed by the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League (CFL) and accepted a spot on the team's practice roster.

In July 2010, Anoa'i was signed to a developmental contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and was put on their developmental territory Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW). He debuted under the ring name Roman Leakee on September 9, 2010 and competed in a singles match that resulted in a loss to Richie Steamboat. He then lost to Idol Stevens and Wes Brisco and finally earned his first win on September 21 in a match against Fahd Rakman.

In late 2011, he formed a team with Donny Marlow and they challenged the Florida Tag Team Champions Calvin Raines and Big E Langston on July 8 but were unsuccessful in winning their match. On the February 5 episode of FCW television, he defeated his later Shield teammates Dean Ambrose and Seth Rollins in a triple threat match to become the number one contender for the FCW Florida Heavyweight Championship but he was unable to win the championship when he was defeated by champion Kruger. He was able to win the Florida Tag Team Championship with Mike Dalton before they lost the belts to CJ Parker and Jason Jordan.

Roman Reigns along with Dean Ambrose and Seth Rollins, made their main roster television debut on November 18, 2012 at the Survivor Series pay-per-view alongside, triple-powerbombing Ryback through the announce table during the triple threat main event for the WWE Championship, which allowed CM Punk to pin John Cena after an earlier Shell Shock from Ryback to retain the title.

In early 2005, while studying at Georgia Institute of Technology, Anoaʻi met and began dating Galina Becker. They were married in December 2014, and live in Tampa, Florida. Their first child, a daughter, was born in December 2007 . They had twin sons in November 2016, followed by another set of twin sons in March 2020.

On the October 22, 2018 episode of Raw, Anoaʻi announced that he had been living with chronic myeloid leukemia, a form of blood cancer. He was diagnosed in 2007 during his American Football career and continues to take medication. Because of his leukemia, he took a break from professional wrestling until February 25, 2019, and again for some months in 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic. 




The Mystery of the Vanished Prince

The Mystery of the Vanished Prince is a children's novel by Enid Blyton. It was published in 1951. It is the ninth book in the "Five Find-Outers" series. 

The main characters in the story are Fatty, Bets, Pip, Larry and Daisy. The prince Bongahwah is kidnapped and the children solve this mystery.

North Platte, Nebraska

North Platte is a city in southwest Nebraska. It had 23,390 people in 2020. The climate of North Platte is semi-arid.

Óðr

In Norse mythology, Óðr (sometimes written in English as Odr or Od) is a man associated with the goddess Freyja. The "Prose Edda" and "Heimskringla", both by Snorri Sturluson, describe Óðr as Freyja's husband. They also describe him as the father of Freyja's daughter Hnoss. "Heimskringla" adds that the couple had another daughter together, Gersemi.

Not much else is written about Óðr, except that he often went away on long journeys. Freyja wept when she missed him. Several scholars have suggested that Óðr may just have been another name for the god Odin.When Freyja wept, she wept tears of red gold, which was very valuable and precious, and this is what she used to give to heroes to do jobs for her so that they had something to bargain with. 

Alessandro Striggio

Alessandro Striggio (–1592) was an Italian composer and Musician of the Renaissance period. His music was well known throughout Europe and he was very influential in England.

Garbage (band)

Garbage is an American alternative rock band that started in Wisconsin in 1993. They have released five studio albums. The members are Shirley Manson, Duke Erison, Steve Marker, and Butch Vig.

At first Vig was the singer, but the band wanted a female singer. Manson was asked to join Garbage after Marker saw the video for Angelfish's "Suffocate Me" and the band's manager found that Manson was the singer. The band signed with Mushroom UK. 

Their first album "Garbage "was released in 1995. It entered the UK Album Chart at number twelve, and spent over a year in it. Six singles were released from the album. The first," ""Vow", was the band's first single. "Queer" was their first top 20 UK single. The fourth single, "Stupid Girl", reached number four in the UK Singles Chart and was nominated for two Grammy Awards, Best Rock Song and Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group.

In March 1998 the first single from their upcoming album "Version 2.0", "Push It" was released. It was their third UK Top Ten hit in a row, reaching number 9. The video was nominated for eight MTV Music Video Awards.

In May 1998 the band released their second album, "Version 2.0". That month they started touring to promote the album until the end of 1999. It was nominated for the 1999 Grammy Award for Album of the Year and Best Rock Album. It entered the UK Albums Chart at number 1. 

In October 2001 "Beautiful Garbage "was released. It was less successful than the band's previous albums, and had a more varied sound. "Rolling Stone"'s US and Australian editions named it was one of their critics' "Top 10 Albums of the Year".

In October 2003 the band broke up. In February 2004 they reformed.

"Bleed Like Me "was released in 2005. It had a more rock sound than "Beautiful Garbage". That year the band went on a break. In July 2007 "Absolute Garbage", a collection of the band's biggest hits, was released on CD and DVD. It reached number eleven in the UK Albums Chart. It had a new song, "Tell Me Where It Hurts". The song was released as a single.

yeIn March 2012 "Blood For Poppies" was released, their first single in almost seven years. In May 2012 "Not Your Kind of People" was released on the band's own label STUNVOLUME. That month they started a tour for the album in Los Angeles.

In 2013 Garbage were nominated for “Best World Stage" at the MTV Entertainment Music Awards.




Nick Bockwinkel

Nicholas Warren Francis "Nick" Bockwinkel (December 6, 1934 in St. Paul, Minnesota – November 14, 2015 in Las Vegas, Nevada) was an American professional wrestler.

He was known for competing in American Wrestling Association (AWA). Bockwinkel was known for his technical ability and ring psychology as well as his calm, charismatic and articulate promos which helped distinguish him from many of his contemporaries.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, he was going to play football at the University of Oklahoma but he suffered a knee injury and Oklahoma withdrew his football scholarship.

He was trained by his father Warren Bockwinkel and Lou Thesz. He joined the American Wrestling Association (AWA) in 1970 and formed a team with Ray Stevens and their manager Bobby Heenan. The team won the AWA World Tag Team Championship three times.

He ended Verne Gagne's seven year reign when he won the AWA World Heavyweight Championship. He won the Championship four times and had feuds with the likes of Billy Robinson, Dick the Bruiser, The Crusher, Mad Dog Vachon, Jerry Lawler, Otto Wanz, Mr. Saito, Verne Gagne and Hulk Hogan. He competed in the first ever AWA versus World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) World Title Unification match, wrestling WWWF Champion, Bob Backlund, to a double count-out, on March 25, 1979.

He worked for the company from 1970 to 1987 and wrestled his last match against Larry Zbyszko after he paid him back for costing him the AWA World title by knocking him out with a roll of coins and pinning him on an episode of AWA Championship Wrestling.

He was the President of the Cauliflower Alley Club, as well as the on-screen General Manager for AWA Superstars. He was inducted in the WWE Hall of Fame on March 31, 2007.

Bockwinkel died in Las Vegas, Nevada at the age of 80.



First Jewish–Roman War

The First Jewish–Roman War was the first and biggest of the Jewish–Roman wars in the Judaea province. It is often called The Great Revolt. It happened from 66–70 AD, and ended with the Empire winning.

It began in 66 AD in Caesarea, where there was religious tension between the Greek and Jewish population. It turned into an anti-taxation protest against Rome. In Caesarea, the Greeks sacrificed animals in front of a Jewish Synagogue. This resulted in the Jews ceasing sacrifices to the Roman Emperor. General Gallus went up against the rebels and lost a crucial battle at Beth Horon in 68 AD.

After this defeat, Emperor Nero replaced Gallus with Vespasian. He crushed the Northern and Southern leadership and the rebellion began to fall apart. Later that year, Nero was deposed. The Roman forces besieged Jerusalem and breached the walls by 70 AD. Once they got into the walls, the Roman soldiers burned and ransacked the city also destroying the Second Temple. The final stronghold at Masada was taken in 73 AD and when the Roman soldiers broke through the defences, they discovered all the defenders had committed suicide. As a result, most of the Jews in the area were scattered or sold into slavery. The final death toll, according to Josephus who was often wrong about numbers, was over one million.

Chvrches

Chvrches (pronounced "churches") are a Scottish synthpop band that started in Glasgow in 2011.

They released their first album, "The Bones of What You Believe" on 20 September 2013. It got very good reviews. It was successful around the world. It reached No.9 in the UK Albums Chart and 12 in the US "Billboard" 200. In December 2013 NME magazine put "The Bones of What You Believe" at number 23 on their list of Best Albums Of 2013. 

In 2015 they released their second album "Every Open Eye." In 2018 they released their third album "Love Is Dead". On 27 August 2021 they released their fourth album, "Screen Violence".

In 2014-present they do concerts in Europe.

Touring musicians


Yasuhiro Nakasone

He was best known for pushing through the privatization of state-owned companies, and for helping to revitalize Japanese nationalism during and after his term as prime minister. Nakasone was the oldest living Japanese prime minister. He turned 100 on 27 May 2018.

Nakasone died at Tokyo hospital on 29 November 2019 at the age of 101 years and 186 days.

Brian Mulroney

Martin Brian Mulroney (March 20, 1939 – February 29, 2024) was a Canadian politician. He was the 18th Prime Minister of Canada from September 17, 1984 to June 25, 1993, and was leader of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada from 1983 to 1993.

His tenure as Prime Minister was marked by the introduction of major economic reforms, such as the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement and the Goods and Services Tax, and the rejection of constitutional reforms such as the Meech Lake Accord and the Charlottetown Accord. Prior to his political career, he was a prominent lawyer and businessman in Montreal.

Mulroney was born on March 20, 1939, in Baie-Comeau, Quebec. He is the son of Irish Canadian Catholic parents, Mary Irene (née O'Shea) and Benedict Martin Mulroney,

On February 29, 2024, Mulroney died at a hospital in Palm Beach, Florida. He had been hospitalized from a fall at his home in Palm Beach.


Jim Leavelle

James Robert "Jim" Leavelle (August 23, 1920 – August 29, 2019) was a Dallas, Texas homicide detective who was escorting Lee Harvey Oswald through the basement of Dallas Police headquarters when Oswald was shot by Jack Ruby.

Leavelle was born and raised in Red River County, Texas. He served in the United States Navy during World War II, and was a sailor on board the USS "Whitney" during the December 7, 1941 Pearl Harbor bombings. 

He joined the Dallas Police Department in April 1950 and retired in April 1975.

Leavelle later said to author Joseph McBride that to him, the murder of President John F. Kennedy was "no different than a south Dallas nigger killing". This remark reveals that Leavelle was a racist who was not really concerned about who killed President Kennedy.

When Leavelle testified before the Warren Commission, he claimed that the first time he had ever sat in on an interrogation with Oswald was on Sunday morning, November 24, 1963. When Counsel Joseph Ball asked Leavelle if he had ever spoken to Oswald before this interrogation, he stated; "No; I had never talked to him before". Leavelle then stated during his testimony that; "...the only time I had connections with Oswald was this Sunday morning [November 24, 1963]. I never had [the] occasion to talk with him at any time..." 

Leavelle believed that Oswald acted alone in killing Kennedy, and said that in a 2006 discussion, he was told by Oswald's brother Robert that he believes the same thing, "because I knew my brother."

Leavelle died at a hospital on August 29, 2019, at the age of 99 while on a trip to Denver, Colorado from a heart attack while recovering from hip surgery.

Killing Lincoln (movie)

Killing Lincoln is a 2013 American television movie that was based on Bill O'Reilly's book "Killing Lincoln". It was narrated by Tom Hanks. 

The television movie was produced by Ridley Scott and Tony Scott. It stars Billy Campbell and Jesse Johnson. It was released to positive reviews on February 17, 2013. Another television movie based on Bill O'Reilly's "Killing Kennedy" was released on November 10, 2013 starring Rob Lowe.

Bruiser Brody

Frank Donald Goodish (June 18, 1946 – July 17, 1988) was an American professional wrestler and football player. He is known for competing in National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) and the American Wrestling Association (AWA).

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Goodish played football at the University of Iowa and West Texas State. He then played in the NFL for the Washington Redskins on their "taxi squad" in 1968 and was cut during second season.

During his time competing in the United States, Goodish was involved in feuds with the likes of Kamala the Ugandan Giant, Abdullah the Butcher, and Jerry Blackwell. During his time in Japan, he tag teamed with Stan Hansen.

On July 16, 1988, before his match with Dan Spivey in Bayamón, Puerto Rico, Goodish was told to go into the shower by fellow wrestler and booker, José Huertas González to discuss business. Goodish waited in the shower and a scuffle ensued which was followed by two groans that was loud enough for the entire locker room to hear. Tony Atlas ran over to the shower and saw that Goodish was bent over and was holding his stomach. He then looked up and noticed that González was holding the knife. Atlas had to carry Goodish down the stairs because Goodish was so big that the paramedics could not lift him up. The last words that Goodish said to Atlas were "Tell my little son I love him, and tell my wife I love her, too." Dutch Mantell received a subpoena after the trial was over and Tony Atlas refused to testify, and without his testimony the District Attorney had no case. González was charged with first-degree murder but that was later reduced and he was tried for involuntary homicide.



Santa Ana winds

The Santa Ana winds are a kind of wind that happen in Southern California and northern Baja California. They are strong and extremely dry. They start in the mountains and blow towards the Pacific Ocean. They often happen during the autumn and winter. They cause wildfires to become worse.

These winds are a kind of katabatic wind, which means they come from the mountains.

Many people think the name "Santa Ana" comes from the Santa Ana Canyon in Orange County, California.

Aethelbald of Mercia

Aethelbald (also spelled Æthelbald) ( 757) was a Mercian nobleman who became the King of Mercia. He brought Mercia back to a position of power not seen since the days of Penda and Wulfhere. Because of his authority and his use of the title "king of the "gens Anglorum"" his people began calling themselves English instead of Saxons, Jutes or Angles. But Aethelbald was not a supporter of the Church. He claimed to be Christian but he led a scandalous and wicked lifestyle. 

Aethelbald the son of Alweo and the grandson of Penda's brother Eowa. As an and possible competitor for the throne, he was forced to leave Mercia by his cousin Ceolred. Aethelbald found refuge with his kinsman, (Saint) Guthlac of Crowland. St. Guthlac died in 714 but predicted Aethelbald would be king of Mercia. Two years later at the death of Ceolred, Aethelbald became king. One of his first acts was to begin construction of Crowland Abbey which he promised to build for Guthlac if his prediction came true. At the start of his reign Aethelbald found himself dealing with two strong kings on his borders. Ine of Wessex and Wihtred of Kent had influence in southern England. Aethelbald had influence with other southern kings. Wihtred died in 725 and Ine abdicated his throne in 726. He supported Athelheard of Wessex to become king in 726. 

Aethelbald began taking over parts of Wessex. He obtained Berkshire in 730. Three years later he took Somerton from Wessex. Aethelbald was able to give the Archbishop of Canterbury a gift of the monastery of Cookham in Berkshire (Wessex). By 731 as Bede was finishing his "Ecclesiastical History", Aethelbald was overlord of all the English kingdoms south of the River Humber. In 740 Aethelbald burned York and destroyed much of Northumbria. The same year Athelheard of Wessex died and was replaced on the throne by Cuthred. Cuthred made it known he was not as weak a ruler as Athelheard and struggled against Aethelbald being his overlord. In the first three years of Cuthred's rule he warred with Mercia but made few gains. In 743 Cuthred joined Aethelbald in fighting the Welsh. In 748 Cuthred's son, Cynric, tried to his father and died in the rebellion. According to the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, the rebellion was encouraged by Aethelbald. In 752, Cuthred tried to break free of King Aethelbald. This led to a battle at Burford where Cuthred battled against Aethelbald. The battle ended up with Aethelbald fleeing the battlefield. From that time on Cuthred maintained independence from Mercia for the rest of his reign.

He influenced the selections of three succeeding Archbishops of Canterbury (in Kent). These were Tatwine in 731, Nothhelm in 734 and Cuthbert in 740. 
Mercia was by this time a very wealthy kingdom and Aethelbald himself was very rich. He apparently used church funds for his own purposes. He forced monks to work on his building projects. Aethelbald not only forced himself on nuns but he promoted the same wicked behavior among monks. Saint Boniface complained to King Aethelbald of his evil ways in a letter dated . He pointed out Aethelbald had not taken a lawful wife nor had he observed chastity. He said the king had ruined his good name before men. Finally that the crimes Aethelbald had committed in convents with nuns and virgins doubled his offense. He warned the king to change his ways before he met a terrible death. This had no effect on Aethelbald. He grew impatient with and interfered with their privileges. Only in his later years did he develop a less high-handed way of dealing with the Church. 

In 757 Aethelbald was murdered at night by one of his own . The throne was by Beornred temporarily until Offa came to power the same year Aethelbald died. Aethelbald maintained his overlordship of all the south English kingdoms for longer than any other . He did this partially by force; Aethelbald was a great war leader. He did this partly through his great wealth through tributes paid to him by other kings. He could afford a large labor force as well as a large army. He also attempted to use the great wealth of the Church to his own advantage. But he also gave grants to the church for building monasteries. He attended great church councils that would not have taken place without his support. He was a powerful king but a less than an ideal Christian.

Battle of Prairie Grove

The Battle of Prairie Grove was an American Civil War battle. It was fought in Arkansas on December 7, 1862. Neither side won the battle, but the Union army was able to keep control of northwest Arkansas for the rest of the war.

Battle of Brandywine

The Battle of Brandywine, also known as the Battle of Brandywine Creek, was a battle between the American Continental Army of General George Washington and the British Army of General Sir William Howe on September 11, 1777, as part of the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783). The two sides met near Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania. More soldiers battled at Brandywine than any other battle of the American Revolution. It was the second longest one day battle of the war, beaten by the Battle of Monmouth, with the two sides fighting for 11 hours. 

Result: British victory

Designated as world heritage site: March 18, 1952

Covington, Louisiana

Covington is a small city in the U.S. state of Louisiana. It is the parish seat of St. Tammany Parish.


Long-Allen Bridge (Shreveport)

The Long–Allen Bridge is a truss bridge in Shreveport, Louisiana.

Camacho (wrestler)

Tevita Fifita (born May 7, 1983) is a Tongan-American professional wrestler. He is best known for his time in the WWE where he competed under the ring name, Camacho.

His father also worked for the WWE (then WWF) under the ring name Haku.

Before he became a professional wrestler, Fifita played football at the University of Texas at El Paso. He graduated from there with a degree in Liberal Arts with major in Communications Electronic Media and minor in criminal justice.

He signed a developmental contract with World Wrestling Entertainment on February 10, 2009 and was assigned to their developmental territory Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) where he competed under the ring name Tonga. Later in March, he joined the Washington's Secret Service stable under the ring name Agent T. where he competed alongside Agent D. and Agent C. After that was over, he changed his ring name to Donny Marlow and teamed with C.J. Parker. On July 21, 2011, Marlow and Parker defeated Calvin Raines and Big E. Langston to win the FCW Florida Tag Team Championship but lost the Tag Team Championship to Brad Maddox and Briley Pierce on November 3.

He debuted on the December 15, 2011 episode of Superstars as the enforcer of Hunico and went under the ring name Camacho. The two teamed together on the April 26 episode of Superstars and defeated The Usos. He made his pay-per-view debut at Over The Limit but was defeated in singles competition against Ryback.

After that, he was sent back down to the developmental territory, the former FCW, which was rebranded into NXT Wrestling. He debuted on NXT in a losing effort against Seth Rollins. He won a match later on the same episode in a six-man tag match when he teamed with Hunico and Michael McGillicutty against Rollins, Bo Dallas and Tyson Kidd. He defeated Kidd in a singles match following a distraction from McGillicutty on the following episode of NXT.

He competed in the pre-show of Money in the Bank when he teamed with Hunico in a losing effort against the WWE Tag Team Champions Kofi Kingston and R-Truth in a non-title match. He made an appearance on the 1,000th episode of Raw with Hunico, Jinder Mahal, Curt Hawkins, Tyler Reks and Drew McIntyre when they tried to ambush Kane in the ring to make a statement but The Undertaker's return resulted in the Brothers of Destruction disposing of all six would-be attackers.

When Hunico got injured, Camacho went back to NXT and attempted to collect a $5,000 bounty that was promised to anybody that could put Big E Langston "on the shelf". Camacho wanted to claim the bounty so he could "get Hunico out of Mexico" but lost to Langston. Camacho reunited with Hunico at the Wrestlemania Axxess live event but he has not been on television since May. He teamed with Hunico to challenge for the NXT Tag Team Championship but were unsuccessful in winning the titles.

On the November 6th episode of WWE Main Event, he once again teamed with Hunico and they made their first televised tag team match since July 2012 against the Usos but lost.

On June 12, 2014, Camacho was released from his WWE contract.




Ouachita Parish, Louisiana

Ouachita Parish () is a parish in the U.S. state of Louisiana. Its parish seat is Monroe. It was created in 1807 by the state government. As of the 2020 census, 160,368 people lived there.

West Richland, Washington

West Richland is a city in Benton County, Washington, United States.

West Monroe, Louisiana

West Monroe is the second-largest city in Ouachita Parish, Louisiana, United States.

Hammond, Louisiana

Hammond is the largest city in Tangipahoa Parish, Louisiana, United States.

Amtrak, the national passenger rail system, is a common sight in Hammond. The old station is still in use and is located right in the middle of downtown.

Part of Hammond's success is due to its location at the junction of two heavily travelled interstate highways:

Two U.S. Highways serve the city:

State highways serving the area include:

Crowley, Louisiana

Crowley is the parish seat of Acadia Parish, Louisiana, United States. Over 60% of the population are non-Hispanic whites.

Nicola Pfund

Nicola Pfund (born November 7, 1960 in Sorengo) is a Swiss Italian writer, blogger and journalist.

He comes from Canton Schaffhausen, but he was born in Sorengo (Canton Ticino). After studying at a teacher-training college, he got a diploma as librarian-documentalist and later as General Culture teacher. Currently he teaches at a vocational school and he writes for some newspapers as a sports journalist (member sportpress.ch and AIPS). He is the author of several books in the historical, educational, sports and travel fields. In particular, his tales about cycling trips in Switzerland and over the Alpine passes are well known and they sometimes offer new and original information about the country.
In 2012, he created a sports blog (triathlon, ecology and ethics in sports) that rapidly became one of the most visited in the Italian language area. Enough to be selected among the seven biggest bloggers of Switzerland involved in a new project of the blogosphere, for the circulation of information concerning the “Energy Strategy 2050” of Switzerland.



Hesperides

The Hesperides () are nymphs in Greek mythology. They look after a peaceful garden in the far west of the world. The garden is located near Cyrene (or Benghazi) in Libya or the Atlas Mountains further west. In the Ancient Greek view of the world, this is at the edge of Oceanus, the world-ocean. The nymphs are said to be the daughters of Hesperus.

Stochastic process

A Stochastic process is a mathematical description of random events that occur one after another. It is possible to order these events according to the time at which they occur.

This can be used to model such things as daily weather data, or exchange rate changes, or medical information like a patient's EKG, EEG, blood pressure or temperature.

Jabberwocky

Jabberwocky is a 'nonsense poem' written by Lewis Carroll in his 1871 novel "Through the Looking-Glass". All the same, it does strangely make a kind of sense.

In an early scene of Alice in Wonderland, Alice finds the verse "Jabberwocky". She says (p24)
"Somehow it seems to fill my head with ideasonly I don't exactly know what they are.”
This is now thought to be one of the greatest nonsense poems written in English. Its playful, whimsical language has given us nonsense words, portmanteau words and neologisms such as "galumphing" and "chortle".

The concept of nonsense verse was not original to Carroll. Nonsense existed in Shakespeare's work and was well known in the Brothers Grimm's fairytales, some of which are called lying tales or "lügenmärchen". 
John Tenniel reluctantly agreed to illustrate the book in 1871, and his illustrations are still the defining images of the poem.

The illustration of the Jabberwock may reflect the Victorian obsession with natural history and the fast-evolving sciences of palaeontology and geology. The works of Darwin and the models of dinosaurs at the Crystal Palace Exhibition helped feed the interest. Perhaps it is not so surprising that Tenniel gave the Jabberwock "the leathery wings of a pterodactyl and the long rough neck and tail of a sauropod".

Jabberwocky

'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
All mimsy were the borogoves,
And the mome raths outgrabe.

"Beware the Jabberwock, my son!
The jaws that bite, the claws that catch!
Beware the Jubjub bird, and shun
The frumious Bandersnatch!"

He took his vorpal sword in hand:
Long time the Manxome foe he sought—
So rested he by the Tumtum tree,
And stood awhile in thought.

And as in uffish thought he stood,
The Jabberwock, with eyes of flame,
Came whiffling through the tulgey wood,
And burbled as it came!

One, two! One, two! and through an through
The vorpal blade went snicker-snack!
He left it dead, and with its head
He went galumphing back.

"And hast thou slain the Jabberwock?
Come to my arms, my beamish boy!
O frabjous day! Callooh! Callay!"
He chortled in his joy.

'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
All mimsy were the borogoves,
And the mome raths outgrabe.

Many of the words in the poem are playful words of Carroll's own invention, without special meaning. When Alice has finished reading the poem she gives her impressions: 

'It seems very pretty,' she said when she had finished it, 'but it's rather hard to understand!' (You see she didn't like to confess, even to herself, that she couldn't make it out at all.) 'Somehow it seems to fill my head with ideas—only I don't exactly know what they are! However, somebody killed something: that's clear, at any rate'
In "Through the Looking Glass", the character of Humpty Dumpty explains to her the nonsense words from the first stanza of the poem. However, Carroll's personal commentary on several of the words differ from Humpty's. An analysis of the poem and Carroll's commentary is given in the book "The Annotated Alice" by Martin Gardner.

Rupert Sheldrake

Alfred Rupert Sheldrake (born 28 June 1942) is an English author. From 1967 to 1973 he was a biochemist and cell biologist at Cambridge University., Then he went to work in India from 1974 to 1978. His first book, "A New Science of Life", was published in 1981. It is about his a theory called "morphic resonance". He gave a TEDx talk in 2013 on his book "The Science Delusion" that was banned. In 2009 Adam Rutherford, the deputy editor of a scientific journal called "Nature", wrote in the Guardian about him and his book "A New Science of Life". He said "don't read this book, it will make you stupider". He is an Anglican. He is married to Jill Purce.


Ridgeway, Minnesota

Ridgeway is an unincorporated community (Class Code U6) in Winona County, Minnesota. It is at latitude 43.912 and longitude -91.56 (Ridgeway Panoramio Photos). The elevation is 1,342 feet. Ridgeway is on the Witoka U.S. Geological Survey Map.


City-Haus

City-Haus is a skyscraper in the Westend-Süd district of Frankfurt, Germany. It has 42 stories, and is tall. It was built from 1971 to 1974 and designed by architects Johannes Krahn and Richard Heil. Today it is part of the headquarters of DZ Bank.

Deutsche Bank Twin Towers

The Deutsche Bank Twin Towers (also called Deutsche Bank Headquarters; or '), are a pair of skyscrapers in Frankfurt, Germany. It is located in the city's Westend-Süd district. The two towers are the same design ("twin towers"). They are tall. They serve as the headquarters for the Deutsche Bank. This is the largest bank in Germany. The twin towers are also sometimes nicknamed debit and credit (German: '), which are two aspects of every financial transaction. 

Ship of the line

A Ship of the line was a kind of warship. Most ships of the line were built between the 17th and 19th century. At that time, battles were fought by many such ships, which sailed in a line. At first, such ships were sailing boats, but from about the 1840s, steam-driven ships of the line were built. The steam-powered ships of the line were still made of wood. From about 1859, the Ironclad warship replaced them. 

At that time, ships had cannons. Larger ships had room for more cannons, and were therefore more likely to hit the enemy. Today, ship designs are noticeably different, as cannons are no longer used.

University of Salamanca

The University of Salamanca () is a Spanish higher education institution. It is in the town of Salamanca, west of Madrid, in the autonomous community of Castile and León. It was established in 1134 and given the Royal charter of establishment by King Alfonso IX in 1218.

The University of Salamanca was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

Trou aux Cerfs

Trou aux Cerfs (also known as Murr's Volcano) is a dormant volcano in Curepipe, Mauritius. It is high and has a well-defined cone and crater. The crater has been alternately described as 300 and 350 meters in diameter, and is 80 meters deep.

Battery recycling

Many batteries are thrown away in regular waste after they have been used. Battery recycling is a name of the process of separately collecting such batteries so that they can be disposed of properly. Batteries contain metals such as lead, copper or zinc. In the form that is used in the batteries, these metals are very harmful to the environment - most are toxic. Collecting the batteries allows the extraction of some of the metals, which can then be re-used, not thrown away. The parts that cannot be extracted or re-used are disposed of in a way that is less harmful to the environment. For this reason, many countries have rules that say that a given percentage of all batteries must be re-cycled. 

"Italics" designates button cell types.<br>
Bold designates secondary types.<br>
All figures are percentages; due to rounding they may not add up to exactly 100.

American Hustle

American Hustle is an American crime drama movie directed by David O. Russell. It is based on the FBI ABSCAM operation of the late 1970s in Camden, New Jersey. It stars Christian Bale, Amy Adams, Bradley Cooper, Jeremy Renner, Jennifer Lawrence, Louis C.K., Michael Peña, and Robert De Niro. It was composed by Danny Elfman. It was released on December 18, 2013.

King's shilling

The King's shilling (or the Queen's shilling if the monarch is female) was the name given to a shilling that was given to soldiers who joined the British Army and the Royal Navy as a reward for enlisting. The word is often used when talking about the 17th and 18th centuries, but the word has been used since the English Civil War and is still used today.

Someone who said they would join the army was given the coin, but could give it back before they made a promise to a judge. Once the promise was made, they were given more money. The amount of money they were given changed over the years. In 1812, a new soldier was given £23, 17 shillings and six pence. This money was a lot, which persuaded many people to join the army, but the money was spent very quickly on uniform. Because this money was a lot, some people joined and deserted lots of times to get the money each time. One man was hanged in 1787 for doing this 47 times.

Villavicencio

Villavicencio is a city in Colombia. It is the largest city and the capital of the Department of Meta. Villavicencio is on the great Colombian–Venezuelan plain called Los Llanos. In 2005, 384,131 people lived there. the city was founded as in 1840. The city became the capital of the department in 1959.

5 Seconds of Summer

5 Seconds of Summer (abbreviated 5SOS) is a pop-rock band from Quakers Hill, a Western suburb of Sydney, Australia. The band has 4 members: Calum Hood (bass guitar, vocals), Michael Clifford (guitar, vocals), Luke Hemmings (lead vocals, guitar), and Ashton Irwin (drums, vocals). Luke, Calum, and Michael all attended Norwest Christian College in Riverstone, NSW. Ashton, however, attended Richmond High School in Richmond, NSW. Michael came up with the name '5 Seconds of Summer'. Calum writes most of their music and they often sing about love or according to Ashton, life. The band have talked about being heavily influenced by famous rock bands such as Green Day, All Time Low, Blink-182, and Nirvana. In an interview, they stated that their music was "Basically the love child of all their favorite bands". They have also said that their hero is Billie Joe Armstrong, the lead singer of Green Day. They supported Hot Chelle Rae on their 2012 "Whatever" tour. They toured with One Direction for their TMH and WWA tours and gained international fame. They now have their own tour "Rock Out With Your Socks Out" (ROWYSO). Their second headline tour started in February 2016, "Sounds Live Feels Live" (SLFL). The band has released four albums, 5 Seconds of Summer, Sounds Good Feel Good, Youngblood and Calm, in that order.

5 Seconds of Summer started out with Luke Hemming making covers on YouTube and, then he invited Calum and Michael to the band as well, where they were quickly getting recognition. Later on, they were in need of a drummer which led them to Ashton Irwin on Facebook from a mutual friend, and they officially became a band on December 3 ,2011. Louis Tomlinson and Niall Horan from One Direction later directed their attention toward them. Over the years 5SOS released EP's like "Somewhere New (2012), Unplugged (2012), Don't Stop (2014), Good Girls (2014), Amnesia (2014), and She's Kinda Hot (2015)." They proceeded to release their first album ""5 Seconds of Summer"" on June 27, 2014 which got recognition from fans worldwide and resulted in their first headlining tour "Rock Out With Your Socks Out". Their second album "Sounds Good Feels Good" was released on October 23, 2015, followed by their second headlining world tour "Sounds Live Feels Live". The band released their 3rd album, "Youngblood", on the 15th June, 2018, after returning from their 3-year hiatus. Since then, the band has featured on The Chainsmokers' single "Who Do You Love", and joined The Chainsmokers on their tour, World War Joy. They went on the No Shame tour and will be featuring the famous rock band, All Time Low. The band has just finished their latest album. It’s called 5SOS5 and features songs like Bad Omens(2022), Easy For You To Say (2022) and Me, Myself And I (2022). They are also going on their 12th headlining tour to promote the record, playing in counrties like Argentina, Portugal, and the United States.

Sea breeze

A sea breeze (or onshore wind) is a wind from the sea that develops over land near coasts. It is formed by increasing temperature differences between the land and water; these create a pressure minimum over the land due to its relative warmth, and forces higher pressure, cooler air from the sea to move inland. A sea breeze or onshore breeze is any wind that blows from a large body of water toward or onto a landmass; it develops due to differences in air pressure created by the differing heat capacities of water and dry land.

Psapp

Psapp is an English band that started in 2002. The members are Galia Durant and Carim Clasmann. They have released four albums.


Grandfather paradox

The grandfather paradox is an unexplainable situation regarding time travel. It is one type of temporal paradox (paradox involving time).

It is a proposed physical paradox of time travel first described by the science fiction writer Nathaniel Schachner in his short story "Ancestral Voices", and by René Barjavel in his 1943 book "Le Voyageur Imprudent" ("Future Times Three"). 

The paradox asks what happens if you were to travel back in time and killed your grandfather. Your grandfather would be dead, meaning you would never have been born, which means you could not have been alive to go back in time and kill your grandfather, but that means your grandfather would be alive and you would be born and so on with seemingly no answer. 

Since, as far as we know, time travel of this kind is not possible, the paradox is not one we will face in practice.

Samuelsons

Samuelsons was a country and gospel group from Sweden, between the 1960s and 80's. It consisted of the brothers Rolf (1939–1981), Kjell (born 1942), Olle (born 1950) and Jard Samuelson (born 1952).

In December 1966 the first album was released in the USA, and was awarded three stars by Billboard. They soon became popular throughout Europe, Canada and the USA.

M. S. Subbulakshmi

Madurai Shanmukhavadivu Subbulakshmi (6 September 1916 – 11 December 2004) was a Tamil Carnatic singer and actress. She sung in lots of different languages. Her first performance was at the Madras Music Academy. Her first recording was released when she was 10 years old. Her first film was Sevasadanam. She sung in it and acted. It was released in 1938. In 1997 her husband Kalki Sadasivam died. After this she didn't perform anymore. She was the first ever musician to get the Bharat Ratna, the India's highest civillian award. In September 2013 a statue of her was shown for the first time at Sri Shanmukhananda Chandrasekarendra Saraswati auditorium. She died on December 11, 2004 at the age of 88. 

Ertharin Cousin

Ertharin Cousin (born 1957) is, since 2012, the twelfth Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme.

On June 9, 2009, Cousin was nominated by President Barack Obama to become United States Ambassador to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture.

In November 2013 she was in "Time" magazine's list of "The 13 Gods of Food".

She was born in Chicago.


Chinatown, London

Chinatown in London is in Soho area in the West End. It has Chinese-run businesses. These include restaurants, bakeries, supermarkets and souvenir shops.



A.J. Styles

Allen Neal Jones (born June 2, 1977) better known by his ring name AJ Styles or A.J. Styles, and even by his nickname The Phenomenal (One), is an American professional wrestler. He is currently wrestling for WWE. He is best known for working for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) where he along with James Storm and Jeff Jarrett were the only wrestlers to have worked continuously for the promotion since its first broadcast on June 19, 2002.

He was the first wrestler to complete the TNA Triple Crown Championship when he won the TNA X Division, NWA World Tag Team, and NWA World Heavyweight Championships. He is also the first wrestler to complete it more than once when he completed it five more times.

On December 8, 2013, it was announced by TNA that Styles' contract negotiations had failed. He was later released from the company and will be a free agent on December 17.

On March 27, 2014, Styles signed a contract with New Japan Pro Wrestling. He debuted at Invasion Attack 2014 on April 6 where he attacked the IWGP Heavyweight Champion Kazuchika Okada and hit his finishing move, the "Styles Clash" on him. Styles then said that he was the new leader of Bullet Club. This came after Prince Devitt, the former leader of Bullet Club, had to leave the company after losing a Loser Leaves Town match against his rival Ryusuke Taguchi.



King David Hotel

The King David Hotel is the official hotel for visiting heads of state, important diplomats, and other guests of the government of Israel. It is in Jerusalem. The hotel was established in 1931 by the rich Jewish-Egyptian banker Ezra Mosseri.

The hotel is also famous for Zionist terrorist bombing in 1946. 91 people died. 


Israel Railway Museum

Israel Railway Museum () is the national trains museum of Israel. The museum is located in the east train station of Haifa. The station was established in 1892 by the Ottoman government for the Hejaz train to Mecca. It was the first train station in Palestine and the Land of Israel. In the station there is a Turkish monument for the train.


Israel National Museum of Science, Technology, and Space

Israel National Museum of Science, Technology, and Space ( ") "is Israel's national museum of science, technology, and space. It is located in Haifa. It occupies the old Technion building.


Berserker

Berserkers (or berserks) were a special kind of Norse warrior who were widely feared. Old Norse literature said they fought in a wild, trance-like fury. This later gave us the English word "berserk". 

Many Old Norse sources say that berserkers were real. Most historians believe that berserkers worked themselves into a rage before battle. Others think they might have eaten drugged foods. The Ynglinga saga said they charged their enemy without any armour. Also that they were as mad as wolves. They could kill the enemy with a single blow of their sword while neither fire nor iron could hurt them.

Division of Kingsford Smith

The Division of Kingsford Smith is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales. The division is named after Sir Charles Kingsford Smith, the first pilot to fly across the Pacific Ocean. The Kingsford Smith International Airport (Sydney International), and the suburb of Kingsford, which are both in the division, are also named after him. The division was set up in 1949.

The division covers the south-eastern suburbs of Sydney, on the north shore of Botany Bay, and the coast of the Tasman Sea. It includes Coogee, Randwick, Maroubra, Mascot, Botany, Malabar and Kensington.

Lionel Bowen was a minister in the Whitlam government and the Deputy Prime Minister under Bob Hawke. Laurie Brereton was a minister in the Keating government. Peter Garrett was the lead singer of the Australian band Midnight Oil, and a former President of the Australian Conservation Foundation. He served as the Minister for the Environment and Minister for Education. Garrett retired at the 2013 election. He was replaced by Matt Thistlethwaite who had been a member of the Senate.


No Way Out (2008)

No Way Out (2008) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on February 17, 2008 at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, Nevada. It was the tenth No Way Out event held by the WWE. 


Mars, Incorporated

Mars Incorporated is an American food company. They are mostly known as a chocolate manufacturer but they make many other foods. They also make food for pets. Brands include Uncle Ben's rice, Wrigley's, 3 Musketeers and M&M's. They employ 70,000 people worldwide.


Mozarabic Rite

The Mozarabic Rite is a form of worship used by the Roman Catholic Church. It is used in Spain. This rite started in the 1st century.

Opelousas, Louisiana

Opelousas is the parish seat of St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, United States. It is the most populous municipality in St. Landry Parish.


Cloutierville, Louisiana

Cloutierville is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States.


Thomas Wyatt

Sir Thomas Wyatt (1503–1542) was an English poet and diplomat. He gets credit for bringing the into the English language. A sonnet is a special type of poem with 14 lines. He was "the Renaissance ideal—soldier, statesman, courtier, lover, scholar, and poet.”

Wyatt was born at Allington near Maidstone, Kent, England in 1503. His father was Henry Wyatt and his mother was named Ann Skinner. Henry Wyatt was loyal to King Henry VII of England. This allowed Henry to have many high-ranking positions in the King's court. Thomas Wyatt went to St John's College, Cambridge, from 1515 to 1522. He was twelve when he first entered the college. At age 17 in 1520, Wyatt married Elizabeth Brooke. His wife was the daughter of Lord Cobham. They had two children, Thomas and Bess. However, the marriage was unhappy. Wyatt once wrote a letter to his son that put blame in both parents for the bad marriage, "but chiefly [mostly] in her." Both Thomas Wyatt and his wife Elizabeth cheated on each other. After his wife had two children, the couple was separated.

Wyatt got his first position at court in 1516. In this year he was "sewer extraordinary," an attendant or page at the christening of Princess Mary. He was probably able to get this position so young because his father Henry had such a good reputation with the King. In 1524, Wyatt was named keeper of the King's jewels. In these early years at court, Wyatt met Anne Boleyn. Many thought they were lovers at this time, but there is no proof. In 1526, Wyatt began his career as a diplomat. Wyatt was sent to Paris, France with Sir Thomas Cheney. Cheney was one of the many people who liked Wyatt. In a letter, Cheney said Wyatt had "as much wit...as any young man hath in England."

A year later, Wyatt was sent to the Vatican in Rome and Venice, Italy with Sir John Russell. It was probably during these trips that Wyatt became interested in French and Italian poetry. While Wyatt was in Venice, he was taken prisoner by Spanish troops. They wanted England to pay 3,000 ducats to set him free. Today that is close to 300,000 USD. Wyatt escaped before the money was paid.

From 1528 to 1530, Wyatt was High Marshal of the town of Calais. During these years, Wyatt continued to have interest in French and Italian poetry. Two important poets he read were Petrarch and Ludovico Ariosto. From 1530 to 1536, King Henry VIII sent him on many shorter diplomatic missions. In 1533, Wyatt represented his father in a position called "chief sewer" at Anne Boleyn's (when she was made queen).

In May of 1534, Wyatt was imprisoned in Fleet Prison for killing one of the guard in London in a fight. This was a minor offense, so he was released quickly. But in 1536, Anne Boleyn was arrested and beheaded. She had been accused of having other lovers while married to King Henry. Around this time, Wyatt was also arrested and locked up in the Tower of London. No reason was given for Wyatt's arrest, but there were rumors that it had something to do with Anne Boleyn. It is still unclear today whether Anne Boleyn and Thomas Wyatt ever had an affair. Some of Wyatt's poems make this seem true. Nicholas Sanders, a Catholic poet, thought that Wyatt told King Henry VIII not to marry her because she was impure. He thought that Wyatt told the King about their affair to convince the King not to marry Anne. Sanders said that Wyatt was released because he had tried to warn the King that Anne would be a bad wife. Wyatt's grandson, George Wyatt, disagreed. George Wyatt said that his grandfather never had an affair with Boleyn because she rejected him. Whether or not Wyatt had a relationship with Boleyn, he was released from prison after a month. He was soon given several promotions. The promotions show that either the King forgave Wyatt or that he wasn't very mad at Wyatt in the first place. Soon, Wyatt became the Sheriff of Kent.

In 1537, Wyatt became a knight. He also began an affair with Elizabeth Darell, who had a son. Afterwards, he was sent to Spain to live in an embassy. His mission in Spain was to improve the relationship between the Holy Roman Emperor, Emperor Charles V, and King Henry VIII of England. Emperor Charles V was unhappy with the King of England because he divorced the Emperor's aunt, Catherine of Aragon. This was especially bad because the King had originally asked the Pope for special permission to marry Catherine, who was the widow of the King's older brother Arthur. The embassy was a disaster. Sir Thomas Wyatt and the other ambassadors, Edmund Bonner and Simon Heynes, were all unsuccessful. Also, Bonner disliked Wyatt. Bonner accused Wyatt of treason (and of liking papists, or Catholics). These accusations were cleared by Thomas Cromwell. Cromwell was the chief minister to Henry VIII and often protected Wyatt.

In May 1539, Wyatt returned to London. In 1540, Cromwell was arrested and beheaded. Without Cromwell's protection, Bonner got Wyatt arrested for treason. King Henry VIII, who liked Wyatt, released him with a condition: Wyatt had to leave Darell and return to his wife. Even though Wyatt was forced to separate from Darell in 1541, she and their son were still in Wyatt's will when he died.

After Wyatt again had the King's favor, he was sent on more missions to France and Flanders. In 1542, he was elected a member of Parliament from Kent. On the 3rd of October of the same year, Wyatt was sent to take an ambassador from Spain from Dorset to London. He rode for days with the ambassador but then Wyatt got sick from the journey. He fought a fever for three days and then died at Sherborne, Dorset. On October 11, 1542 he was laid to rest in the Horsely family vault in the church at Sherborne. Some poets wrote elegies (poems of mourning) for Wyatt. One of the most famous was by Wyatt's friend Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey. He wrote: "Wyatt resteth here, that quick could never rest." Surrey also thought that Wyatt "reft Chaucer the glory of his wit" (i.e. he stole Chaucer's title as the wittiest writer).

Wyatt wrote in many forms. These forms include sonnets, songs, lyric poems, and rondeaux. A rondeau is a strict poem with 13 lines and two rhymes. It also involves a repeat of the beginning of the first line. The repeat usually comes at lines 8 and 13. Sonnets are poems with 14 lines. Today we usually divide sonnets into English or Shakespearean sonnets and Italian or Petrarchan sonnets. Petrarchan sonnets are named for the Italian poet Petrarch. Petrarchan sonnets are grouped into an octave (a set of 8 lines) and a sestet (a set of 6 lines). It has the rhyme pattern abba abba cddece. Wyatt translated many of Petrarch's poems into English. Wyatt was the first to use the form we now call the Shakespearean sonnet. It is a poem of 14 lines grouped into three quatrains (a set of four lines) and a couplet (a set of two lines). It has the rhyme pattern abab cdcd efef gg. William Shakespeare came after Wyatt, but he often used the type of sonnet Wyatt invented. In fact, Shakespeare used it so often that the sonnet form was named after Shakespeare instead of Wyatt.

Wyatt's songs, sonnets, lyric poems and rondeaux were usually about love. Few of his works were published while he was alive. Those that were published during his lifetime were usually published without his name attached. 96 of Wyatt's songs were published with Surrey's work in "Songes and Sonettes, Written by the Ryght Honorable Lorde Henry Haward Late Earle of Surrey, and Other." This volume was published in 1557 by Richard Tottel. It is now more commonly called "Tottel's Miscellany." He wrote other songs that were found in other manuscripts. The main theme of his 200 songs was how he was treated badly by his mistress. Wyatt writes about both sexual and political betrayal, and sometimes mixes the two. Wyatt wrote 31 sonnets. Ten of his sonnets were translations from Petrarch.

Wyatt also wrote three satires and a series of 7 penitential psalms. Both his psalms and his satires were in "terza rima." Wyatt was the first to use "terza rima" in English. This form is where you have sets of three lines that rhyme in the following pattern: aba bcb cdc and on. He also brought "ottava rima" to English. "Ottava rima" is a set of eight lines with the rhyme pattern abababcc. For bringing so many different forms to English poetry, Wyatt was called "one of two chief lanterns of light" to future English poets by George Puttenham in 1598. The other lantern was the Earl of Surrey.

Wyatt's work was read less during the 17th Century, but was picked up again in the 18th and 19th Centuries. During this time, "Tottel’s Miscellany" was seen as a marker for the beginning of "Italianized" English poetry. But readers from the 18th and 19th Centuries did not think Wyatt's work was as good as Shakespeare's or Sidney's, who came after him. Also, 18th and 19th century readers liked Surrey's poetry better than Wyatt's poetry. This was true even after they discovered that Wyatt's poetry came first. In his History of English Poetry (1781), Thomas Warton wrote that Wyatt "is confessedly inferior to Surrey... He has too much art as a lover, and too little as a poet.’’ This view changed in the 20th century between the two World Wars. Today, many scholars think Wyatt was the better poet.


Chatham House

Chatham House, also known as the Royal Institute of International Affairs, is a London think tank. It is a non-profit, non-governmental organization. It analyses and promote the understanding of major international issues and current affairs. 

Chatham House is one of the world's leading organizations in this area. It takes its name from its premises, a Grade I listed 18th-century house in St. James's Square, once occupied by three British prime ministers, including William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham.

In a recent report, Chatham House is ranked the second most influential think tank in the world after the Brookings Institution, and the world's most influential non-US think tank. In 2009, Chatham House was also named the top non-US think tank by "Foreign Policy" magazine.

Chatham House has had distinguished presidents from each of the three main political parties at Westminster: Sir John Major, former UK Prime Minister, Lord Ashdown (1941-2018), former EU Special Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina and former leader of the Liberal Democrats, and Baroness Scotland, the former Attorney General.

The think tank was founded in 1920 as the British Institute of International Affairs. The first chairman was Robert Cecil, a leading conservative politician. Historian Arnold Toynbee later became director. The Council on Foreign Relations, its American sister institute, was established the following year. 

Chatham House's headquarters at 10 St. James's Square, London, was donated to the institute in 1923. It had been the house of three British Prime Ministers - Pitt the Elder, Edward Stanley and William Ewart Gladstone.

In 1926, now with its royal charter, the name was changed to the Royal Institute of International Affairs. However, it is usually referred to as "Chatham House".
It is just a few metres from the former Libyan embassy building where the 1984 Libyan Embassy Siege took place.

The BBC Today/Chatham House lecture series promotes debate and discussion on key international issues of the day. At the inaugural lecture in 2006, Condoleezza Rice defended the U.S. decision to go to war with Iraq.

In April 2022, Chatham House was labeled as "undesirable organization" in Russia.

With its members, Chatham House aims to promote debate on significant developments in international affairs and policy responses. Their independent research and analysis on global, regional and country-specific challenges is intended to offer new ideas to decision makers on how these could best be tackled from the near to the long term.
Chatham House is routinely used as a source of information for media organizations seeking background or experts upon matters involving major international issues.

It has been alleged that Chatham House reflects a pro-establishment view of the world. It does have donations from large corporations, governments and other organizations, but Chatham House is membership-based and anyone may join. Chatham House currently has international leaders from business, diplomacy, science, politics and media as its individual members.

Chatham House is the origin of the anonymity rule known as the Chatham House Rule. Guests attending a seminar may discuss the results of the seminar in the outside world, but may not discuss who attended or what any person said. The Chatham House Rule helps frank and honest discussion on controversial or unpopular issues by speakers. Despite this, most meetings at Chatham House are actually held on the record, and not under the Chatham House Rule.

Salem

Salem is the name of several places:




Sri Lankan Civil War

The Sri Lankan Civil War was a war fought in the island of Sri Lanka. It started on 23 July 1983. There was a revolt against the government by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (also called the Tamil Tigers-தமிழீழ விடுதலைப் புலிகள்.). They fought to create an independent state for Tamil people called Tamil Eelam in the north and the east of the island.

The war lasted for 26 years. A ceasefire in the early 2000s broke down and the fighting began again. The Sri Lankan military defeated the Tamil Tigers in May 2009. The civil war caused a terrible setback to the social, cultural, and economic life of the country. Tens of thousands of people were killed.


Calaisa

Calaisa is a quartet from the town of Malmö in Sweden. It consists of the systers, Caisa and Lisa Troedsson and the sisters Malin and Anna Törnquist. The band participated at Melodifestivalen 2008 with the song "If I Could", which was knocked out during the Karlskrona competition on 1 March 2008.

Calaisa has released several albums.



Pope Sergius III

Pope Sergius III (c. 860 − 14 April 911) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 904 to 911. He was born in Italy. He is buried in St. Peter's Basilica.

Ajax, Louisiana

Ajax is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States.

The Wurzels

The Wurzels (originally Adge Cutler and the Wurzels but renamed after Cutler's death) are a British Scrumpy and Western band. 

The Somerset-based band is best known for their 1976 number one hit "Combine Harvester", and number three hit "I Am A Cider Drinker" based on the song "Una Paloma Blanca". They have lasted over 40 years, and still perform to this day.

The name of the band was dreamt up by the band's founder Adge Cutler. It appears to be short for mangelwurzel, a type of beetroot grown to feed livestock.

The Wurzels' particular genre of music was called Scrumpy and Western after the group's first EP of the same name, issued early in 1967. Scrumpy is slang for the potent cider made in southwest England, popular amongst The Wurzels and their fans, and often referred to in their songs.

The Wurzels were formed in 1966 as a backing group for singer/songwriter Adge Cutler. With a thick Somerset accent, Adge played on his West Country roots, singing many folk songs with local themes such as cider making (and drinking), farming, dung-spreading, local villages and industrial work songs, often with a comic slant.

During the latter half of the 1960s, the band became immensely popular regionally, and the release of the single "Drink Up Thy Zider" in 1966 led to national fame and it reaching number 45 in the UK chart. The B-side "Twice Daily" was banned by the BBC for being too raunchy. A number of live albums were recorded at local pubs and clubs.

Adge Cutler died after falling asleep at the wheel of his MG sports car which overturned on a roundabout approaching the Severn Bridge. He was returning alone from a Wurzels show in Hereford in May 1974. He is buried in Nailsea.

Adge's death marked a turning point in the history of the Wurzels. Deprived of the main song-writing talent, the remaining Wurzels recorded "The Wurzels Are Scrumptious!" in 1975, an album containing many favourites from the back catalogue, including a number of previously unrecorded Cutler-written songs. In order to continue the surviving band needed its own songs, and these mostly took the formula of re-written popular pop songs of the time with the lyrics changed to include the usual Wurzel themes (cider, farming, local villages, Cheddar cheese, etc.)

In 1976, the Wurzels released "The Combine Harvester", a re-work of the song "Brand New Key", by Melanie, which became a UK hit, topping the charts for 2 weeks. The band quickly followed its success with "I Am A Cider Drinker" (a rework of the "Una Paloma Blanca" melody), which got to number three in the charts, and "Farmer Bill's Cowman" (a reworking of the Whistling Jack Smith instrumental "I Was Kaiser Bill's Batman").

The Wurzels have never stopped performing. The group signed to Cumbria record label Loose Records & Music, and recorded four new new songs including the single "I Wanna Be An Eddie Stobart Driver" (released as a limited edition lorry-shaped disc).

The late 1990s saw the fortunes of the surviving Wurzels revive, gaining cult status among students and a resurgence in their native West Country. Under the new management of The Stranglers manager Sil Willcox a number of CD releases followed, largely featuring re-recordings of older works. "Never Mind The Bullocks, Ere's The Wurzels" had covers of British rock songs. The album title and cover were a spoof on "Never Mind the Bollocks, Here's the Sex Pistols".

Their latest album is "A Load More Bullocks" (2010) for the CIA label.

New Iberia, Louisiana

New Iberia is the parish seat of Iberia Parish, Louisiana, United States. it is the largest city in Iberia Parish and the 13th-largest in the state of Louisiana.


Scott, Louisiana

Scott is a municipality in Lafayette Parish, Louisiana, United States. It is the second largest municipality in the state. The population was over 8,000 according to the 2020 census results.

Scott is a suburb of Lafayette and is part of the Lafayette Metropolitan Statistical Area.

Derry, Louisiana

Derry is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States. It is on Louisiana Highway 1.
It is the closest town to Magnolia Plantation, a National Historic Landmark.

There is an abandoned school next to the St. Matthew Baptist Church off Louisiana Highway 119 near Derry.

Ingleton

Ingleton may refer to:


Adour

The Adour (, ) is a river in southwestern France. It flows through the Occitanie and Nouvelle-Aquitaine regions.

It starts in the Pyrenees, at the Arbizon mountain. It flows into the Atlantic Ocean (Bay of Biscay) near Bayonne.

The Adour river has a length of . Its drainage basin has an area of approximately .

The Adour river starts, as Adour de Payolle, at the north side of the Arbizon mountain. This river combines with the Adour de Gripp and the Adour de Lesponne to form the Adour river at Campan.

The Adour flows north for almost through the Hautes-Pyrénées to Gers. There, it turns to the west and gets into the Landes department. In Port-de-Lanne, the Adour is joined by the Gaves réunis river. Finally, it flows into the Bay of Biscay, in the Atlantic Ocean, between Anglet (Pyrénées-Atlantiques) and Tarnos (Landes).

Boats can travel on the river beginning about from its mouth.

Some of the important tributaries (longer than ) of the Adour are:
"Départements" and towns found along the Adour river are:

The average yearly discharge for the Adour river is at Saint-Vincent-de-Paul in the Landes department.

The Adour shows typical seasonal changes. The highest levels of the river are in winter and spring, from December to May inclusive, with the highest level in February. They are followed by a rapid fall in the flow during the low water period that goes from July to October.



Emilia Rydberg

Emilia Rydberg, also known as Emilia Mitiku or more simply Emilia (born 5 January 1978, Stockholm, Sweden) is a Swedish pop and soul singer, mostly known for her worldwide hit single, "Big Big World".


Dukkha

Dukkha is an important concept in Buddhism. It is usually translated as "suffering". It is about understanding why people are unhappy. It is one of the Four Noble Truths.

National Library of Indonesia

The National Library of Indonesia is in Jakarta, the capital city of Indonesia. It is the country's national library.

It was started on 17 May 1980. By law, a copy of all printed works published in Indonesia must be given to the National Library.


Hemliga byrån

Hemliga byrån was a Swedish synthpop group with Swedish writers Anders Jacobsson and Sören Olsson. One of their most famous songs, "Hej, hej, hemskt mycket hej". It became a 1987 Svensktoppen hit. Another famous song was "Hjärtattack". They also acted as house band for the TV series "Trollkontroll" in 1990. The series features a music video in each episode.


Busted

Busted are an English pop rock band from Southend-on-Sea, Essex. They started in 2002. The original members were James Bourne, Matt Willis and Charlie Simpson. All of them did singing. Simpson played keyboard, piano, harmonica, and drums. Bourne played guitar. Willis played drums. They released their first single "What I Go to School For" in the UK in September 2002 and it reached No.3. That month they released their first album, "Busted". It reached No.2 in the UK Albums Chart. On 17 November 2003 they released their second studio album, "A Present for Everyone". It went straight to No.2. In December 2004 Simpson left to focus on his band Fightstar. On January 14 the band broke up.

The band had five UK No.1s between 2002 and 2004. One of the No.1s was as part of Band Aid 20's 2004 "Do They Know It's Christmas?" single. In February 2004 the band got Best British Breakthrough Act and Best Pop Act at that year's BRIT Awards.

From 19 to 22 September 2013 Willis and Bourne performed with McFly at McFly's four 10th anniversary concerts at the Royal Albert Hall as "McBusted". In 2014 McBusted toured the UK.

Kafir

A kafir, pronounced as, ""kaafir"", is someone who does not believe in God according to Islam. It is the most common description used in the Qur'an for non-believers or non-Muslims. They are also mentioned especially in the Quran in the Sura (chapter) Kafirun. Jews and Christians were required to pay the "jizya" while others, depending on the different rulings of the four Madhhabs, might be required to accept Islam, pay the jizya, be exiled, or be killed. 

Sink

A sink is a place for washing. In homes, sinks are in kitchens and bathrooms. A sink has a bowl or basin, one or two taps, and a drain. Water comes out of the taps; the bowl holds the water. The drain lets the water flow out. Some sinks may have sprays to clean things faster. Some sinks have a soap dispenser. Water filters can be put on a sink.

Plumbing

Angel Haze

Raykeea Angel Wilson (born July 10, 1992), better known by their stage name Angel Haze, is an American rapper. BBC put them at number three in their Sound of 2013 list.
They released the first single from their album, "Echelon (It's My Way)" on August 28, 2013.
They released their first mixtape on November 27, 2009. Since then they have released five more mixtapes.
Haze performed at 2013's Reading Festival and Leeds Festival.
On October 22, 2013 Haze released a remix they made of "Same Love" by Macklemore.

Haze's first album "Dirty Gold" was released on December 30, 2013.

Their first album "Dirty Gold" was going to be released in January 2014. It was produced by six different people, including Mike Dean, Greg Kurstin and Malay. In an interview with NME they said, "My new album's most definitely not hip-hop." On December 18, 2013 the album was leaked. It was released on December 30, 2013. On March 17, 2014 "Battle Cry" will be released.

Haze was born in Detroit, Michigan. They have one older brother, three little brothers, and one little sister. They are African and Native American. They identify as agender and pansexual. They have released two songs insulting Azealia Banks, "On the Edge" and "Shut the Fuck Up". They prefers the they/them pronouns.


Taulihawa

Taulīhawā (officially called Kapilvastu Nagarpalika) is a city in southern Nepal. It is the capital of the Kapilvastu District, in the Lumbini Zone.

Hiroshi Tanahashi

Hiroshi Tanahashi (born November 13, 1976) is a Japanese professional wrestler. He is currently signed to New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW). He is also the president and representative director for NJPW.

During his time in NJPW, he has become a six-time IWGP Heavyweight Champion. He shares the record for most reigns as IWGP Heavyweight Champion with Tatsumi Fujinami and also holds the record for most successful defenses with eleven during his fifth reign as champion.

On December 23, 2023, Tanahashi was named as both the President and Representative Director of New Japan Pro-Wrestling.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Tanahashi played baseball in high school and also started wrestling during his time attending Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto. While he was wrestling, he was noticed by New Japan Pro Wrestling talent scouts and was invited to try out for the New Japan Dojo. His tryout was successful and he was brought in as a trainee.

Tanahashi made his debut in October 1999 in a match against Shinya Makabe. During that time, he was viewed as a big prospect and he earned wins over lucha libre legend Negro Casas in July 2000 and American Scott Hall in September 2001.

He would go on to team with Kenzo Suzuki with their tag team being called the Kings of the Hills. The team ended when a real life incident occurred in November 2002 with Tanahashi being stabbed in the back by Hitomi Hara (a TV Asahi news reporter that he had dated for a brief amount of time). He was hospitalized, but recovered.

He returned to in-ring competition this time as a singles wrestler on February 16, 2003 in a match against Manabu Nakanishi in front of a sold-out Tokyo crowd.

On January 4, 2014, Tanahashi was able to defeat Shinsuke Nakamura in the main event of Wrestle Kingdom 8 in Tokyo Dome to win the IWGP Intercontinental Championship. He had a rematch against Nakamura at The New Beginning in Hiroshima on February 9 where he was successful in defending his championship. When Nakamura won the 2014 New Japan Cup, Tanahashi had a second rematch against Nakamura at Invasion Attack 2014 on April 6. Nakamura defeated Tanahashi for the championship in the match.



Pnau

Pnau is an Australian dance music group. There are two members: a singer, Nick Littlemore, and a guitarist, Peter Mayes. They come from Sydney. Their first album, "Sambanova" (1999), won the ARIA Award for Best Dance Release, and was very successful in the Australian music charts.

Their third album, "Pnau", was also a success with critics. They were signed to a record label under musician Elton John after he listed to this album.

Littlemore has also achieved success with his side-project Empire of the Sun.

National Library of Malaysia

The National Library of Malaysia is in Kuala Lumpur, the capital city of Malaysia. It is the country's national library. It was founded in 1956.


Azealia Banks

Azealia Amanda Banks (born May 31, 1991) is an American rapper, singer, and songwriter. She was born in Harlem, New York City. On November 9, 2008 she made a Myspace account and released her first song, "Gimme a Chance" on it as "Miss Bank$". Later that year she was signed by XL Recordings. In 2011 Banks was chosen by NME as No.1 of their Cool List of the year.
Her first album "Broke with Expensive Taste" is going to be released in January 2014. Her second album, Fantasea II: The Second Wave is going to be released July 2013.
On December 6, 2011 Banks' first single "212" was released. On May 28, 2012 her first EP "1991" was released in the UK. It was released in the US the next day. A video for the song "Van Vogue" was released. On July 11, 2012 a 19-song mixtape called "Fantasea" was released for free download. Banks' second single "Esta Noche" was going to be released September 25, 2012, but a day before this was cancelled because the producer Munchi said she "stole" the track.

On December 4, 2012 the single "Liquorice" was released.

Banks made a dark purple lipstick with MAC called "Yung Rapunxel". It was marketed online from September 6 to 20, 2012.

On January 10, 2014 Banks released a remix of "Partition" by Beyoncé Knowles she made with Busta Rhymes.

Banks is bisexual.


National Library, Singapore

The National Library (, , ) is in Singapore. The new 16-story replaces the old National Library at Stamford Road. The building was designed by T.R. Hamzah & Ken Yeang and is the headquarters of the National Library Board.

The library was moved to new building in 2005 under the National Library Board known as the Lee Kong Chian Reference Library and also Central Public Library.


Listening

Listening is not quite the same thing as hearing. Hearing is a biological process that can be scientifically explained, but listening is a psychological process of what happens to sounds as we interpret and use them. It is a cognitive activity.

In psychology, speech is part of pragmatics, a field which deals with signs and their interpretation. The signs in question are called "speech acts".

To listen means to try and understand what has been said. Listening is often one side of a conversation. Asking questions helps one understand what has been said. A subject can be better understood by asking the correct questions.

Listening differs from obeying. Parents often say to a disobedient child that he "didn't listen to me", meaning, he heard but didn't do as was suggested.

Listening also applies to sounds, not just language. It is "active" hearing. We hear a sound, and know what it means. This applies to animals as well. Cats list in the long grass for the little sounds that mice make. So perhaps a better description of listening is "deliberate hearing to get the meaning of sounds".

Cookies 'N' Beans

Cookies 'N' Beans are a Swedish country music group consisting of Frida Öhrn, Linda Ström and Charlotte Centervall. The girls started the group in 2003 and in 2007 the group released their first coveralbum "Tales from a Trailor Trash Soul". They participated in Melodifestivalen 2009, the Swedish national selection for the Eurovision Song Contest 2009 in Russia, with the song "What If", and again in Melodifestivalen 2013 for the Eurovision Song Contest 2013 in Malmö, with their song "Burning Flags". The group's fourth album, "The First Steps", was released on 13 March 2013. The group has also appeared on several Swedish television shows such as "Allsång på Skansen" and "Lotta på Liseberg" singing their songs after appearing in Melodifestivalen the first time in 2009.




No Way Out (2007)

No Way Out (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on February 18, 2007 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. It was the ninth No Way Out event held by the WWE. 


No Way Out (2006)

No Way Out (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on February 19, 2006 at the 1st Mariner Arena in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the eighth No Way Out event held by the WWE. 


Cultural relativism

Cultural Relativism is a theory of anthropology that views all cultures as equal. Early anthropologist Franz Boas first used the idea of cultural relativism in 1887, but the concept did not have a name until Alain Locke coined the term in 1924. This concept is now accepted by anthropologists around the world.

Franz Boas noticed that people who study other cultures still tend to be ethnocentric. This means that other cultures are viewed through one's own ideas of how a culture or society should work. A person may be ethnocentric without meaning to be. Ethnocentrism is the idea that one’s own culture is the best, and other cultures are studied or viewed with this outlook. In Boas’ article “On Alternating Sounds,” he explains how different cultures experience sound differently. When people study or come into contact with other cultures, people misunderstand sounds and language. An example used by Boas, is when he studies Inuit texts, words, and languages that are spelled in the Bureau of Ethnology by British Columbia. There were many misspellings explained by a misunderstanding by other cultures that have a different phonetic system rooted in a person's life. 

In order to reduce this ethnocentrism from happening when anthropologists study other cultures, Boas thought that the person would need to live with people that they were studying for a long period of time. A person would be able to learn the culture and language better, and then decrease the number of times they misinterpret sounds and language of that culture. 

One of Franz Boas’ students, Ruth Benedict, was an anthropologist that studied the beliefs and practices within a culture’s social system. She noticed that they became mixed patterns of ideas and practices. Benedict believed that people should learn all of the ways people live. The way people show emotions, carry out daily routines or perform normal functions changes based on each individual’s own culture. By studying these cultures, Benedict thought that people could understand that every culture has a different way of living and the way that person lived was not the only way 

Cultural relativism was also used as a political device. Alfred L. Kroeber used ideas like cultural relativism to argue that indigenous populations are equal to settlers, since indigenous people have culture as well. argued that cultural diffused from West Africa and still existed during and after slavery. This idea was meant to fight against the myth that Africans do not have any culture or cultural roots. 

Ruth Benedict also noticed that an individual’s view of what actions were right and what actions were wrong relied on one’s own culture. A person formed what was right and wrong based on social norms and values of their culture. They then formed their system of morals, which told them how to live. Benedict believed that no one person’s morals were necessarily better or worse than another’s; it was all relative on the society in which they lived. 

Two anthropologists, George Marcus and Michael Fisher, explain cultural relativism as being a critical device used in analyzing and studying other cultures. It is also used to self-reflect on our own culture. The research of anthropologist Margaret Mead is a great example of cultural relativism. After looking at young female sexuality in Samoa, located in New Guinea, Mead questions the ‘natural’ stress related to American adolescence and sexuality as bound to happen. Her research on this is found in her book "." 

Richard Feinberg, an anthropologist, identifies cultural relativism as having three types: contextual, ethical and epistemological. Contextual relativism is defined as members of a community or society having beliefs and practices that are represented through symbols and meanings that need to be understood within that culture. A practice that appears to be similar in two different cultures could be understood completely different among those two communities, which is an idea that Boas highlighted in his works. Ethical relativism is identified as cultures having no good or bad practices and beliefs, so people would not be able to make these judgments. Epistemological relativism is explained as the view that a person cannot truly understand another culture in a useful or meaningful way, which is similar to Boas’ ‘historical anthropology’ now identified as historical particularism. 

Hohentwiel

Hohentwiel is an extinct volcano in the Hegau region of Baden-Württemberg in southern Germany. It is west of the city of Singen and from Lake Constance. It is tall but is hidden.

No Way Out (2005)

No Way Out (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on February 20, 2005 at the Mellon Arena in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It was the seventh No Way Out event held by the WWE. 


Kapilavastu

Kapilavastu ("Kapilavatthu") is the name of the place where Gautama Buddha grew up, and where his family home was located. It was located in the ancient Shakya kingdom, which is today part of Nepal. The exact location of Kapilavastu is not known; it is assumed to be about 10 kilometers to the west of Lumbini, where Buddha was born.

Buddha spent the first 29 years of his life in the area of Kapilavastu.

The Marshall Mathers LP 2

The Marshall Mathers LP 2 is the eighth studio album by American rapper Eminem. It was released on November 5, 2013.

The album is a sequel to Eminem's most praised work, "The Marshall Mathers LP" (2000). Production for "The Marshall Mathers LP 2" took place from 2012 to 2013. Dr. Dre and Rick Rubin were the executive producers.

Music critics mostly gave the album positive reviews. Praise went to Eminem's technical rapping skill and production choices. "The Marshall Mathers LP 2" was Eminem's best-reviewed album at Metacritic since "The Eminem Show" (2002).

On May 24, 2012, Eminem said that he had begun working on his next album in an interview on Hot 97's morning show with Peter Rosenberg.

On February 8, 2013, Shady Records president and Eminem manager Paul Rosenberg told "Billboard": "We fully expect to be releasing a new Eminem album in 2013. He's been working on it for some time. It's safe to say that it will be post-Memorial Day [May 27] at some point, but we're not exactly sure when."

On August 25, 2013, two Beats by Dre commercials aired during the MTV Video Music Awards revealed that Eminem's eighth studio album would be titled "The Marshall Mathers LP 2" and would be released on November 5, 2013.

On September 20, 2013, the cover artwork was revealed on Eminem's Twitter account.

On October 10, 2013, the track listing was revealed.

Ecgfrith of Mercia

Ecgfrith ( 796) was the King of Mercia from July to December 796. He was the son of Offa, the King of Mercia, and Cynethryth. In 787 he was crowned King of Mercia while his father still ruled. This is the first known consecration of an English king. No doubt it was Offs's imitation of the consecration of Charlemagne's sons by the pope in 781. It was a practical way to recognize Ecgfrith as heir to the Mercian kingdom. Offa continued to rule and maintained all the power himself. 

Ecgfrith was succeeded as king by Coenwulf. This was probably because Offa had arranged the murder of nearer relatives in order to eliminate any rivals to Ecgfrith. Alcuin of York, an English deacon and scholar wrote: 

When his father died in July of 796 Ecgfrith was king for only 141 days. The cause of his death is unknown but may not have been natural.

<br>

Macintosh 128K

The Macintosh 128K, originally released as the Apple Macintosh, is the original Apple Macintosh personal computer. 

Bactrosaurus

Bactrosaurus was a hadrosaur from the Upper Cretaceous about 70 milion years ago. This plant-eating dinosaur. was found in the Gobi Desert of China. It was about 6 metres (20 feet) long and 2 metres (6.6 feet) high when standing on all fours. It weighed 1.1 to 1.5 tonnes (2,400 to 3,300 pounds).

Research showed that this genus and its near relatives were unusually prone to cancer. Among more than 10,000 specimens x-rayed, tumors were only found in these Cretaceous hadrosaurs (duck-billed dinosaurs). The reason for this is not known.

Patrik Eliáš

Patrik Eliáš (born April 13, 1976) is a former Czech professional ice hockey winger that played for the New Jersey Devils of the National Hockey League (NHL) where he was the alternate captain.


Division of Lindsay

The Division of Lindsay is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and is named after Sir Norman Lindsay, the Australian artist, writer and sculptor. 

The division is in the outer western suburbs of Sydney, and includes Cambridge Park, Cambridge Gardens, Castlereagh, Claremont Meadows, Cranebrook, Emu Plains, Glenmore Park, Jamisontown, Kingswood, Leonay, Llandilo, North St Marys, Oxley Park, Penrith, Regentville, St Marys, South Penrith, Werrington, Werrington County, Werrington Downs and parts of Agnes Banks, Luddenham and Wallacia.

Since it was set up in 1984, its winning member of parliament has been from the party winning government. 

Jackie Kelly won the seat during the 1996 election. Her win was challenged in the Court of Disputed Returns because she was still a citizen of New Zealand, and she worked as a legal officer for the Royal Australian Air Force. The Australian Constitution (Section 44) does not allow people who are citizens of another country, or people who are employed by the government to be members of Parliament. A by-election was held, and Kelly who had given up her New Zealand citizenship, and resigned from her airforce job was elected again.

In 2007 Kelly was again in trouble. Three days before the election her supporters, including her husband, were caught in Lindsay putting fake letters in peoples' letterboxes. These letters linked the Labor Party to Islamic terrorism. 

David Bradbury had served as the Mayor of Penrith. Every member of Lindsay to date, except Scott, has served as a minister.


No Way Out (2002)

No Way Out (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on February 17, 2002 at the Bradley Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It was the fourth No Way Out event held by the WWF. 


No Way Out (2001)

No Way Out (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on February 25, 2001 at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, Nevada. It was the third No Way Out event held by the WWF. 


No Way Out (2000)

No Way Out (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on February 27, 2000 at the Hartford Civic Center in Hartford, Connecticut. It was the first No Way Out event held under the "No Way Out" name, although it was preceded in 1998 by an event named . 


Bell River (New South Wales)

The Bell River is a river in the central west of New South Wales, Australia. It is part of the Murray-Darling basin and flows into the Macquarie River.

The Bell River begins in the hills to the north-west of Orange, New South Wales, it flows a generally northerly direction joining the Macquarie River at Wellington, New South Wales. The river is long and drops .

Platypus have been seen in the lower river near Wellington.

Aboriginal Australians of the Wiradjuri nation were the original inhabitants of the area around the river.

The river was named in honour of Brevet Major Bell by European explorer John Oxley, later Surveyor General of New South Wales.

Pieces of gold were found in and along the river in 1851. This started a minor a minor gold rush, mainly near where Nubrigan Creek joins the Bell River.

The river occasionally floods generally near Wellington, however it has flooded further up river. Major floods occurred in 1920, 1926, and in 1990 at Newrea, where the river reached .

Burrendong Dam

The Burrendong Dam is a major dam on the Macquarie River in New South Wales, Australia. It is upriver of Wellington in the central west region. It is an embankment style gated dam. The wall is filled with rock and has a clay core. The dam was built and is used for flood mitigation, irrigation, water supply and hydro-electric power generation. The dam creates Lake Burrendong and is filled by the Macquarie and Cudgegong rivers and Meroo Creek.

The lake formed by the dam, named Lake Burrendong, is popular for fishing and general tourism.

The dam was built by the New South Wales Water Conservation & Irrigation Commission. Construction began in 1958. It finished in 1967. It was built to reduce flooding, for irrigation, and to supply a relatively constant water supply. The dam is about southeast of Wellington in the Wellington Shire local government area. The name "Burrendong" comes from the Wiradjuri word for koala ("burrandhang").

The dam wall is high and is long. Normal water depth is . When the dam is full the water level is AHD. At full capacity the dam holds , with an additional flood mitigation capacity of , and has a surface area of . The dam collects water from an area of . The spillway on the dam is a gated concrete chute, able to release .

A major upgrade took place place between 2010 and is expected to be completed in 2015. The project costs AU$32 million. It will ensure the dam reaches modern safety standards. During the upgrade the main dam will be raised , the current spillway will be modified and another spillway added.

The dam includes a hydro-electric power station. This was completed in August 1996. It was opened by the Premier of New South Wales, Bob Carr, on 9 February 1999. The station can generate up to of electricity and each year the power station generates about . The station was originally operated by Power Facilities Pty Limited. It is now managed by AGL Energy.

Tenon saw

A tenon saw is a kind of backsaw that is used to cut straight lines in wood. It does not cut materials such as metal. It is a standard item in the carpenter's toolkit. A tenon saw is made out of high-speed steel (HSS) and brass. It is sometimes made out of hard-carbon steel (heat treated steel).

It is used to cut small pieces of wood and most joints. The saw has a fine toothed crosscut for sawing plywood, thin wood and large joints.

International Bureau of Weights and Measures

The International Bureau of Weights and Measures is an organization that is based in Sèvres near Paris in France. Its name in French is ""Bureau international des poids et mesures"". The abbreviation of its name in all languages is BIPM. These are the letters of the name in French.

It was established in 1875 and has laboratories and offices. Scientists use the laboratories to compare measurements that are made in different countries. The offices are used for meetings where scientists discuss the best way to make sure that all countries use the same measurements.

No Way Out of Texas: In Your House

No Way Out was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on February 15, 1998 at the Compaq Center in Houston, Texas. It was the twentieth In Your House event. No Way Out later became the title of annual PPV held by the WWF.


Brownian bridge

A Brownian bridge is a stochastic process that results from the Brownian motion, given that at the end of the time modeled, the function value is 0.

Scotts

Scotts may refer to several things:



Scotts (band)

Scotts is a modern dansband from Lidköping, Sweden. Established in 1992, Scotts competed at Dansbandskampen in 2008, finishing up second behind Larz-Kristerz, starting to aim at their ambition becoming a full-time band. The band also competed at Melodifestivalen in 2009, with the song "Jag tror på oss".




Kacey Musgraves

Kacey Lee Musgraves (born August 21, 1988) is an American country singer. She released her first three albums herself before being signed to Mercury Records in 2012. Her first album on the label, "Same Trailer Different Park", was released on March 19, 2013. It went straight to number two in the "Billboard" 200. 

Musgraves won New Artist of the Year at the 2013 Academy of Country Music Awards. She also performed her single "Follow Your Arrow". 

"Same Trailer Different Park" was nominated for Best Country Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards.

She has won six Grammy Awards (including the Grammy Award for Album of the Year in 2019), seven Country Music Association Awards, and three Academy of Country Music Awards.

In 2009, she sang on three songs on Mark McKinney's album "Middle America".

Musgraves was born in Mineola, Texas. She wrote her first song, "Notice Me", at the age of 9.


Amanda Righetti

Amanda Righetti (born April 4, 1983) is an American actress. She appeared in television programs, among them being The O.C.. She was also in several movies. Righetti was born in St. George, Utah.

Amber Tamblyn

Amber Rose Tamblyn (born May 14, 1983) is an American movie and television series actress. She first became known through "General Hospital", an ABC soap opera. From 2003 to 2005, she starred in "Joan of Arcadia". She also acted in the movies "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants" and "Django Unchained". Her father is Golden Globe Award-winning actor Russ Tamblyn.

Stephanie Daley

Stephanie Daley is a 2006 drama movie. It was released in 2007 in the United States. drama movie. The movie is about teenage pregnancy. In this movie, the title character dodges questions by her psychologist and insists she is pregnant through an act of God. Amber Tamblyn plays Stephanie Daley in this movie. Also starring are Tilda Swinton and Timothy Hutton.

Battle of Germantown

The Battle of Germantown was a battle of the American Revolutionary War fought during the Philadelphia Campaign. It was fought on October 4, 1777 near Germantown, Pennsylvania. The British won the battle.

Campan valley

The Campan valley is a valley of the Pyrenees in the French department department of Hautes-Pyrénées in the Occitanie region.

The valley is in the arrondissement of Bagnères-de-Bigorre, and Bagnères-de-Bigorre (the subprefecture of the arrondissement) is at the northern end of the valley.

This is one of the valleys found in the upper watershed of the Adour river, on the northern slopes of the Pyrenees. It is formed by three high valleys (valleys in the mountains) where are the sources of the three "Adours" that meet at Sainte-Marie-de-Campan and then in Baudéan to form the Adour river that then flows beyond Bagnères-de-Bigorre.

The valley goes from the northwest to the southeast, from Sainte-Marie de Campan to Montgaillard.

The three high valleys (and their rivers) are:

There are many small lakes; some of them are reservoirs (man-made lakes). The larger of these lakes is the "Lac Bleu de Lesponne", or simply the "Lac Bleu", with an area of .

The Pic du Midi de Bigorre and its astronomical observatory are located in the valley of Campan.

The ski resorts of La Mongie and Payolle are also found in this valley.



Hansa

Hansa can refer to several things:


Stop codon

A stop codon, or termination codon, is special sequence in the genetic code. It is a nucleotide triplet in messenger RNA that signals the end of translation.

It is a codon (that is, a sequence of three nucleotides in messenger RNA). It indicates the end of a gene. Similar to how a full stop indicates the end of a sentence, a stop codon signals the end of genetic translation.

They are also called termination codons or chain termination codons. There are three such codons: UAA, UAG and UGA.

Proteins are based on polypeptides, which are unique sequences of amino acids. Most codons in messenger RNA correspond to the addition of an amino acid to a growing polypeptide chain, which may ultimately become a protein. Stop codons indicate the end of this process, and therefore, the end of polypeptide synthesis.

Coenwulf of Mercia

Coenwulf (also spelled Cenwulf and Kenulf) (died 821) was a Mercian nobleman and the King of Mercia from December 796 until his death. He claimed to be a descendant of a Cenwalh, a brother of Penda and Eowa. The sudden death of King Ecgfrith of Mercia was suspicious and certainly benefited Coenwulf but he was never formally accused. Coenwulf proved to be a strong king who quickly restored Mercian in southern England. He was the last of the Mercian overlords or .

Coenwulf was the son of Cuthbert, a Mercian nobleman. He came to the throne in 796, the same year Offa and his son Ecgfrith both died. At the same time Coenwulf became king, Eadberht Praen set himself up as king of Kent. An Eadwald set himself up as king of the East Angles and began issuing coins. When Eadberht Praen expelled Aethelheard, the Archbishop of Canterbury from Kent, Coenwulf contacted Pope Leo III and got permission to remove the new Kentish king. Eadbert attacked Kent, and captured Eadbert. He then set up his brother Cuthred as king of Kent. Coenwulf then dealt with East Anglia where Eadwald had tried to gain independence from Mercia. In 799 Coenwulf made a peace treaty with Wessex. He restored Mercian power to southern England very quickly. He then began using the style of Charlemagne calling himself king and emperor. He attacked the Welsh making raids on Gwynedd and Powys. In one of these battles Caradog ap Meirion, the king of Gwynedd was killed. In 801 King Eardwulf of Northumbria attacked Mercia. He accused Coenwulf of giving refuge to his enemies. Eventually the two made peace on equal terms. This was through the mediations of several bishops and nobles.
Coenwulf wanted all the English churches placed under the authority of a single archbishop. But he wanted him seated in London, not Canterbury. He managed to abolish the of Lichfield in 803. Coenwulf tried to convince the pope on moving the remaining archbishopric to London. But the pope felt that Coenwulf's success in bringing Kent under his control meant the move was no longer necessary. So the archbishop remained in Canterbury, Kent. When Archbishop Aethelheard died in 805, his Wulfred was appointed the new archbishop. Wulfred witnessed charters for Coenwulf from 805 to 817 but then promptly stopped. Archbishop Wulfred and King Coenwulf quarreled for several years. It may have started over a claim by Coenwulf to various lands held by the see of Canterbury. Wulfred in turn began minting coins without the name of King Coenwulf. Finally in 817 Coenwulf took Wulfred's monasteries of Reculver and Minster-in-Thanet. Then he brought charges against Wulfred to Pope Paschal I. As a result, Wulfred was relieved of many of his duties by the pope. In 821 Coenwulf summoned the archbishop to appear before him in London. There Wulfred was fined 120 pounds and an estate of 250 hides He was then restored to his duties as archbishop. In 818 he was again attacking the Britons in Dyfed. He was planning another campaign against Wales when he died in 821. He was succeeded by his brother Ceolwulf I of Mercia. Coenwulf was buried at Winchcombe abbey where his daughter Cwenthryh was later . A lead seal belonging to King Coenwulf was found during the 19th century in Italy. It is now in the British Museum.

Coenwulf had two known children:



Over the Limit (2012)

Over the Limit (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on May 20, 2012 at the PNC Arena in Raleigh, North Carolina. It was the third and final Over the Limit event held by the WWE.


DJ Quik

David Marvin Blake (born January 18, 1970), better known by his stage names DJ Quik or Da Quiksta, is an American rapper and record producer. Blake was born in Compton, California.

Blake was born on January 18, 1970 in Compton, California. He was mainly inspired by funk and soul artists, such as Roger Troutman (who even taught him to use the talkbox, which became a trademark for Quik's sound throughout his career) and George Clinton. Out of respect for his beloved friend, Roger Troutman, he retired the talkbox. David's love for music began at age 2, as his mother had an extensive record collection. By age 12 he was already playing instruments. By the age of 21, he was a platinum-selling artist.

He began selling homemade mixtapes (notably "The Red Tape", 1987) after he received a turntable for his 9th grade graduation. He then began doing shows DJing around Southern California, many of which ended in rival gang related altercations. He was a member of the Tree Top Pirus Bloods. In the 11th grade, Quik dropped out of high school. For a period of about three years he was homeless after his mother lost her home, due to foreclosure. He would later say that after his success in the rap world many of his family members "popped up".




American Music Awards
Awards

Over the Limit (2010)

Over the Limit (2010) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment. It was held on May 23, 2010 at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the first Over the Limit event held by the WWE.


Box office bomb

The term box office bomb (or box office flop) usually means a movie that is not successful or does not make much money at the box office.

One example of a box office bomb is the action-thriller "Money Train" (released in November 1995). That movie made only $9 million above its $68 million overall budget.

Another box office bomb was "Cutthroat Island", which was released in December 1995. That movie cost $98 million, but took in only $10,017,322 at the box office.

Cutthroat Island

Cutthroat Island is a 1995 American romantic comedy movie directed by Renny Harlin. The movie is about pirates invading ships in 1668 Jamaica. Geena Davis plays Morgan Adams. This movie performed so poorly at the box office that, before Christmas 2010, it became a massive "box office bomb" and was considered the least successful movie in United States history. Its reviews from movie critics were very negative.

Segar Bastard

Segar Richard Bastard (25 January 1854 – 20 March 1921) was an amateur English football player and referee. He played football for Upton Park F.C. and Trojans F.C.. He refereed a number of important matches, including FA Cup finals and Home Nations international matches.

Scottish Premiership

The Scottish Premiership is a professional football competition for professional clubs in Scotland. It is the top level of the Scottish Professional Football League, starting in July 2013 after the closure of the Scottish Premier League.

The clubs listed below have competed in the Scottish Premiership.

René Aufhauser

René Aufhauser (born 21 June 1976 in Voitsberg, Styria) is an Austrian football player who played for FC Liefering as defender. Liefering is playing in the Austrian Football First League, which is the second level in Austrian football. Since 2021 he is headcoach of the team.

Aufhauser started in his local clubs ASK Köflach and ASK Voitsberg. In Voitsberg he was discovered by scouts of Austria Salzburg and in 1997 he signed for the club. Soon he became member of the Austrian U21- national team. 2001 he left Salzburg to join the Grazer AK. In 2004 he won the Championship with this side. After the Red Bull take over of SV Austria Salzburg he came back to join FC Red Bull Salzburg. In 5 years he played 115 matches and shot 20 goals. Under the new manager Huub Stevens he played not often so he left in January 2010 to join LASK Linz. After the denieing of a licence and the relegation to the 3rd league Aufhauser left the club and went back for the third time to Salzburg and joined FC Liefering, the farm team of FC Red Bull Salzburg. In the 2012/13 season they won the Regionalliga West and had to play two play-off matches versus LASK Linz, his former team. They won and were promoted to the First league.

In 2014 he ended his career an became assistance coach of FC Liefering. 2016 he became assistance coach of FC Red Bull Salzburg and in 2021 headcoach of FC Liefering. He also became headcoach of the FC Salzburg U19 squad for the UEFA Youth League 2021/22.

René Aufhauser played 58 times for the Austrian national football team. He was also part of the squad for the UEFA Euro 2008.

Christy Hemme

Christina Lee "Christy" Hemme (born October 28, 1980) is an American ring announcer, professional wrestling valet, singer, former model and retired professional wrestler. She currently works for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling as an interviewer and ring announcer.

She is also known for her time in World Wrestling Entertainment where she won the 2004 Diva Search. She stayed with them from 2004 to 2005 and was released from her WWE contract on December 5, 2005. She signed with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) in April 2006.



Janelle Monáe

Janelle Monáe (born December 1, 1985), is an American R&B singer. In 2010 she released her first album, "The ArchAndroid". Critics liked it and it got nominated for Best Contemporary R&B Album at the 2011 Grammy Awards. On February 11 2012 she released the first single from the album, "Tightrope". Big Boi rapped in it. It was nominated for Best Urban/Alternative Performance at the same Grammy Awards show. It won Best Track at the NME Awards.

In March 2012 Monáe had her first "Billboard" Hot 100 top ten hit and No.1, as a singer on Fun's single "We Are Young".

In August 2012 she became the model for CoverGirl.

In October 2012 she performed at the BET Black Girls Rock! Awards and won the Young, Gifted & Black Award.

Monáe voice-acted in the "American Dad!" episode "The Boring Identity", which was shown 21 Apr. 2013.

On September 6, 2013 her second studio album "Metropolis: Suites IV and V - The Electric Lady" was released. It got good reviews. It reached No.5 in the Billboard 200. Three singles have been released from it: "Q.U.E.E.N.", "Dance Apocalyptic", and "Primetime". The album includes songs that she did with Solange, Prince, Erykah Badu, and Esperanza Spalding.

On October 26 Monáe performed on Saturday Night Live.

In November 2013 she won Video of the Year honor for “Q.U.E.E.N.” at the Soul Train Awards.

On December 12 2013 she gave the Rising Star Award at the 2013 Billboard Women in Music event in New York.

In April 2018, she came out as pansexual.

Monáe was born in Kansas City, Kansas. She moved to New York to study theatre at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy because she wanted to be a Broadway actress. She changed her mind, and in 2001 she moved to Atlanta. She met Big Boi from Outkast there. They made the Wondaland Arts Society. Monáe released her first EP "The Audition" in 2003. Big Boi told his friend Diddy about Monáe. In 2006 she was signed to his record label Bad Boy.

Nostalgia, Ultra

Nostalgia, Ultra is the debut mixtape album by recording artist Frank Ocean. It was released in February 2011 as a free digital download on Ocean's website. It featured the successful singles "Novacane" and "Swim Good". It was supposed to be reissued as an extended play, but this was cancelled. The mixtape caught the attention of rappers Kanye West and Jay-Z, who got Ocean as a featured artist on their "Watch The Throne" album. The mixtape caused controversy in March 2012 because of the track "American Wedding", which is a remake of "Hotel California" by The Eagles.

Odd Future

Odd Future is a group of hip hop musicians from Los Angeles, United States. It was formed in 2007 by Tyler, The Creator.


 

Nothing Was the Same

Nothing Was the Same is the third studio album by Drake. It was released in September 2013. It was promoted by the hit songs "Started from the Bottom" and "Hold On, Were Going Home". It is very different from Drake's previous album "Take Care".

Mole (food)

Mole is a spicy chocolate made for Día de Muertos (Day of the Dead). It is usually made out of chili peppers, spices, and chocolate.

Nicos Anastasiades

Nicos Anastasiades (born 27 September 1946) is a Cypriot politician who has been President of Cyprus from 2013 to 2023. Previously, he was leader of the center-right political party Democratic Rally (DISY).

Anastasiades was born on 27 September 1946 in Pera Pedi, Cyprus. He studied at National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and at the University College London. Anastasiades is married to Andri Moustakoudes.

Anastasiades was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1981 and has been leader of his party since 8 June 1997.

Anastasiades earned 673 votes (86.73%) and MEP Theocharous 103 (13.27%). On the first round of the presidential election on 17 February 2013, Anastasiades won 45% of votes, while Stavros Malas and George Lillikas earned 26.9% and 24.9%, respectively. He won in the second round with 57.48% of the vote.


Demetris Christofias

Demetris Christofias, also spelled Dimitris Christofias ( ; 29 August 1946 – 21 June 2019), was a Cypriot politician. He was the sixth President of Cyprus from 2008 to 2013. Christofias was the General Secretary of AKEL, the communist party of Cyprus, and was the European Union's and Cyprus' first, and so far only, communist head of state.

He won the 2008 Cypriot presidential elections in the second round of voting. Throughout the election campaign, he promised to restart talks with Turkish Cypriots in order to find an answer to the Cyprus dispute and reunify the island. He has also supported the closure of the British military bases on Cyprus.

On 20 May 2019, Christofias was hospitalized in Nicosia due to an acute respiratory infection and was under critical condition. He died a month later on 21 June 2019 from respiratory failure at the age of 72.


President of Cyprus

The President of Cyprus is the head of state and the head of government of the Republic of Cyprus. The office was created in 1960, after Cyprus gained its independence from the United Kingdom. The current President of Cyprus is Nikos Christodoulides.

There are two living former president. The most recent former president to die was Dimitris Christofias (2008–2013) on June 21, 2019 at the age of 72.

Tassos Papadopoulos

Tassos (Efstathios) Nikolaou Papadopoulos (; 7 January 1934 – 12 December 2008) was a Cypriot politician. He served as the fifth President of the Republic of Cyprus from February 28, 2003 to February 28, 2008.

Papadopoulos died on 12 December 2008 from a type of lung cancer in Nicosia, Cyprus, aged 74.


Glafcos Clerides

Glafcos Ioannou Clerides (; 24 April 1919 – 15 November 2013) was a Greek-Cypriot politician. He was the fourth President of Cyprus. He was the oldest living former President of the Republic of Cyprus.

Clerides was born on 24 April 1919 in Nicosia, Cyprus. He studied at the King's College London in London, England.

During World War II, he served in the British Royal Air Force. In 1942 his airplane was shot down over Germany and he was captured. He remained a prisoner of war until the end of the war. His name was mentioned in dispatches for distinguished services. Clerides was also one of the last European leaders who saw active service in World War II.

He was the acting President of Cyprus 7 December 1974, the day of the return of Archbishop Makarios, President of the Republic, who was forced to flee on 16 July 1974.

From 1961 to 1963 he held the position of President of the Cyprus Red Cross. In recognition of his outstanding services he was awarded a Certificate of Honour and Life Membership in recognition of distinguished services to the Red Cross.

In 1976 he founded the right wing Democratic Rally (Demokratikos Synagermos). He was a candidate for the presidency of Cyprus six times and elected to two five-year terms, in 1993 and in 1998. In 1998 his main opponent was Georgios Iakovou. He was defeated in the 2003 presidential election by Tassos Papadopoulos.

During his presidency, Clerides helped his country of Cyprus to become part of the European Union.

Clerides was the eldest son of lawyer and statesman Ioannis Clerides. Clerides was married to Lila-Irene. They have a daughter, Katherine, who is a member of the House of the Representatives for the Democratic Rally Party.

Clerides died on 15 November 2013 from unexplained causes in hospital in Nicosia, Cyprus. Before his death, Clerides suffered many health issues. He was 94 years old.


Ceolwulf I of Mercia

Ceolwulf I was the King of Mercia, East Anglia and Kent from 821 to 823. He succeeded his brother Coenwulf of Mercia. There was a great deal of disagreement among his noblemen during his short reign. He was deposed and exiled from Mercia by Beornwulf of Mercia who claimed the throne himself.

He was the son Cuthbert, a Mercian nobleman. His brother Coenwulf ruled Mercia before him. At his brother's death the Mercians were attacking Wales. Ceolwulf continued where Coenwulf left off. The "Annales Cambriae" for the year 822 said the 'Saxons' attacked and destroyed the fortress at Deganwy and then controlled Powys. Welsh poems of the time confirm Mercia was attacking Powys. On 17 September 822 he was consecrated king by Archbishop Wulfred. In issued by Ceolwulf he styled himself This shows he had authority in Kent. But his rule in Mercia was marked by among his noblemen. He was removed from the throne in 823. After being deposed Ceolwulf left Mercia for Rome. By this time he was older, probably in his fifties. He was the last of the Iclingas dynasty who had ruled Mercia for over three centuries. Beornwulf who replaced him was from a family little is known about.


Machine pistol

A machine pistol is a typically a -style firearm that can fire fully automatic or burst fire. Fully automatic means that the gun will continue to fire very rapidly so long as the trigger is pressed and held. Burst fire means that when you pull the trigger, a number of shots determined by the shooter will be fired (for some guns, this is three shots, fired very quickly). Machine pistols fire pistol cartridges. Machine pistols usually have the cartridges fed into the gun with a magazine, which is a rectangular box which holds the cartridges.
Machine pistols are usually self-loading, which means that the gun automatically loads a new cartridge into the chamber after a shot is fired. 

The first true machine pistol was the German MP-18 introduced in 1918. It fired the 9mm Parabellum cartridge. It used a side-loading magazine that held 20 cartridges. 

The Germans converted some pistols, like the Luger, into machine pistols. They invented a type of Luger called the Luger P08 in World War I to German artillery crews. It had a longer barrel and a 32 round magazine shaped like a round drum. It was given to artillery crews so they could defend themselves.

In 1951 the Russian army developed the Stechkin APS, which could fire in burst fire or in fully automatic fire. When the gun was used in burst or automatic fire, users were told to use the wooden stock so that they can control the weapon better. One of the problems with machine pistols is they tend to rise up when being fired, making the bullets miss their target.
In the 1990s and 2000s, as more soldiers began wearing bulletproof vests with hard ceramic armor, the machine pistol became less useful in a military setting. The low-powered pistol ammunition was not able to penetrate ceramic-plated Kevlar military vests. As a result, armies began to issue a new gun, the personal defense weapon or PDW. The PDW fires armor-piercing, higher-powered ammunition which can go through bulletproof vests.



Vassos Lyssarides

Vassos Lyssarides (13 May 1920 – 26 April 2021) was a Cypriot politician. He was an important figure in Cyprus politics since the island's independence. In 1969, he founded EDEK, the first Socialist political party of Cyprus.

He was born on May 13, 1920 in the village of Lefkara. He was educated at the Pancyprian Gymnasium and then studied medicine at the University of Athens.

On 30 August 1974, an attempt was made against his life; during the attack, EDEK youth leader Doros Loizou was killed. Lyssarides was elected and served as President of the House of Representatives from 1985 to 1991.

Lyssarides died at his home in Nicosia, Cyprus on 26 April 2021, less than one month before his 101st birthday.

George Vasiliou

Georgios Vasos Vassiliou (; born May 20, 1931 in Famagusta, Cyprus) is an Cypriot politician. He was the third President of the Republic of Cyprus from 1988 to 1993. He was also the founder and leader of the Cypriot United Democrats party (EDI) and a highly successful businessman.

He elected as president of United Democrats and remained president until 2005. In the Parliamentary Elections of 2001 his party lost one of its seats and he wasn't re-elected. In 2004, he resigned from the presidency of United Democrats.

He has also served as Chief Negotiator for the accession of Cyprus to the European Union from 1998 to 2003.


Spyros Kyprianou

Spyros Achilleos Kyprianou (or Cyprianou) (; 28 October 1932 – 12 March 2002) was an Cypriot politician. He was one of the most important politicians of modern Cyprus. He served as the second President of the Republic of Cyprus from 1977 to 1988.

Spyros Kyprianou died on 12 March 2002 after a long fight with prostate cancer.

Makarios III

Makarios III (), born Michail Christodolou Mouskos (; August 13, 1913 – August 3, 1977), was the archbishop and primate of the autocephalous Cypriot Orthodox Church (1950–1977). He was the first President of the Republic of Cyprus (1960–1974 and 1974–1977). In his three terms as President of Cyprus (1959-1977), he survived four assassination attempts.

Makarios died from a heart attack on August 3, 1977 in Nicosia, Cyprus, aged 63.


Open Season

Open Season may refer to:


Salem, South Dakota

Salem is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of McCook County, and it became a city in 1880. At the 2020 census, 1,325 people lived there.


Jorge González (wrestler)

Jorge González (January 31, 1966 – September 22, 2010) was an Argentine professional wrestler and basketball player. He is known for competing in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and World Wrestling Federation (WWF). He also competed for New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW).

Before becoming a professional wrestler, González played basketball. He was the tallest Argentine basketball player in history, standing at 2.29 m (7 ft 6.25 in).

He was drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft by the Atlanta Hawks in the third round. González along with Hernán Montenegro (who was drafted 3 spots after him) became the first Argentine players drafted in the NBA. He was not able to adapt to the physical demands of NBA basketball because of a serious knee injury.

He was known for wearing a full body suit that featured airbrushed muscles with bushy hair attached. He debuted in the WWF at the Royal Rumble in January 1993, where he eliminated The Undertaker from the Royal Rumble match even though he was not an official participant. González challenged The Undertaker at WrestleMania IX but lost by disqualification when he knocked Undertaker unconscious by using chloroform. This win for The Undertaker remains the only instance where he did not have a decisive victory in his WrestleMania streak.



Expected value

In probability theory and statistics, the expected value of a random variable formula_1 (represented by the symbol formula_2) is the average value the variable will take, that is, assuming that the experiment is repeated an infinite number of times, and the mean (or weighted average) of all the values is calculated along the way. 

By definition, the expected value of a discrete random variable formula_1 is calculated by the formula formula_4, where formula_5 is the probability that formula_6 equals formula_7, and formula_7 ranges over all possible values of formula_1.

The Law of large numbers describes how this happens.

It is possible to think of the expected value as a weighted average, where the weights, formula_10 are equal to formula_11. The sum over all probabilities,formula_12 equals one (formula_13). This allows us to write the weighted average as:

formula_14


Canaletto

Giovanni Antonio Canal (18 October 1697 – 19 April 1768) was an Italian painter from Venice. Today, he is mostly remembered for his landscape paintings. Some of these landscape paintings which resemble the views found on modern-day postcards are known as Vedutes today. He was also an important printmaker in etching. 

Wikipediocracy

Wikipediocracy is an Internet forum in English. It was founded in March 2012. It lets people who sign up talk about Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. It is like the Wikipedia Review, another website for talking about how people feel about Wikipedia and the organisations and people that run it.

Wikipediocracy was created by users of the website the Wikipedia Review in March 2012. It says it shows how Wikipedia works and that there are problems with Wikipedia. It says there is corruption at Wikipedia and also  that there are problems with the way it was built. A reporter for "The Daily Dot", which is an online newspaper, has written that Wikipediocracy exposes the bad side of Wikipedia.

In 2013, users of the website gave personal information about "Qworty", a Wikipedia user, to a writer for "Salon", an online newspaper. They revealed his offline identity, along with bad things he had been doing, and the writer published it on "Salon".

Olga Syahputra

Yoga Syahputra (8 February 1983 – 27 March 2015) was an Indonesian actor, comedian, and singer.

Yoga was born to Nur and Nurhida Rachman. He was the oldest of their seven children. His first job as an actor was in "Lenong Bocah". Because he did not have enough money, Olga sold a refrigerator to pay his school fees to take classes at Studio Ananda.


Janet Carroll

Janet Carroll (24 December 1940 – 22 May 2012) was an American movie and theater actress. She acted in many movies, including "Talent for the Game" (1991), "Forces of Nature" (1999) and "Destiny Turns on the Radio" (1995). She also did several TV acts, including "Murphy Brown". She is perhaps best remembered as the mother of Joel (Tom Cruise) in the 1983 film "Risky Business".

Carroll was born in Chicago. She died from brain cancer at age 71, in New York City.

Bernardo Bellotto

Bernardo Bellotto (1721 or 1722 – 17 October 1780) was an Italian urban landscape painter or "vedutista", and printmaker in etching. Today, he is mostly remembered for his "vedute" of European cities (Dresden, Vienna, Turin and Warsaw). He was the pupil and nephew of Canaletto and sometimes used the latter's illustrious name, signing himself as Bernardo Canaletto. In Germany and Poland, Bellotto called himself by his uncle's name, Canaletto.

In his paintings, Bellotto paid great attention to the way he represented works of architecture and how the light illuminated the scene. It is plausible that Bellotto, and other Venetian masters of "vedute", may have used the camera obscura in order to achieve superior precision of urban views.


Roger Schmidt

Roger Schmidt (born 13 March 1967 in Kierspe, North Rhine-Westphalia) is a German football manager. He is manager of Lissboa in Portugal.
His original profession is engineer. As player he played for SC Verl and SC Paderborn as midfielder. 
He started his career as manager with Delbrücker SC, went on to Preußen Münster and then to Paderborn 07. Since his time with Münster he is a professional manager.
He then went to FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Bundesliga, the top level league in Austrian football. Although the team gained goal and point record they finished only second. Being in danger to lose his job a lot of the fans declared their solidarity.

In 2014, he transferred to Bayer 04 Leverkusen. In June 2017 Schmidt joined Chinese Super League Beijing Sinobo Guoan. On 31 July 2019, he was sacked by Beijing Sinobo Guoan. On 11 March 2020 he became new manager of PSV Eindhoven. On 18 May 2022 he became coach of Benfica Lissabon In his first season in Portugal, he led Benfica to their 38th championship.

Dornier Do 17

The Dornier Do 17 is a Nazi German military aircraft. It was used for the World War II as a bomber, night fighter, and reconnaissance plane. It's a twin-engines aircraft. It was used by "Luftwaffe" for Battle of France and after Battle of Britain. Maiden flight in 1934. More than 2100 examples were built. Do 217 and Do 317 are modern variants of it.

It was nicknamed the “flying pencil” for its thin fuselage. It’s successors, the Do-215 and Do-217, would inherit this nickname.

Ernest W. Burgess

Ernest W. Burgess (May 16, 1886–December 27, 1966) was an urban sociologist. He was born in Tilbury, Ontario, Canada. Burgess received his education at Kingfisher College in Kingfisher, Oklahoma. He did his graduate studies in sociology at the University of Chicago. In 1916, he returned to the University of Chicago, as a member of the . Burgess was hired as an urban sociologist at the University of Chicago. He was the 24th President of the American Sociological Association (ASA). He made the Burgess model to show how big Chicago will grow in 1923. The Burgess model is also called the Concentric zone model.


Beornwulf of Mercia

Beornwulf ( 826) was a Mercian nobleman who became the King of Mercia. Although not of the Mercian royal family himself he usurped the throne from Ceolwulf in 823. He ruled Mercia until his death three years later. 

Little is known about Beornwulf's family. He played a large part in Ceolwulf I losing the throne in 823. He succeeded Ceolwulf as king in the summer of 823. Beornwulf continued the campaign against Powys started by Coenwulf and his brother Ceolwulf I. By the end of 823 Powys was being controlled by Mercia. By 825 Beornwulf had extended his authority over Kent, Essex and Middlesex. In 825 Beornwulf invaded Wessex. In what Frank Stenton called "one of the most decisive battles of Anglo-Saxon history" Egbert defeated Beornwulf at the Battle of Ellandun. This was the end of the Mercian kings dominating England. Egbert sent his son Athelwulf with an army to overthrow Baldred, the Mercian sub-king. As a result, all of Kent, Surrey, Sussex and East Anglia submitted to Egbert of Wessex. Egbert was cautious though. He kew Mercia had a powerful army and did not attack Mercia directly. Instead he the East Anglians to revolt against Beornwulf. When Beornwulf tried to recover East Anglia in 826 he was killed in the attempt. He was succeeded by one of his ealdormen, Ludeca of Mercia.


French Resistance

The French Resistance was a group of French resistance movements that fought against the Nazi German military occupation in France during World War II (1939–1945). Resistance cells were small groups of armed men and women who killed German soldiers, published secret newspapers, collected information about the German army, and helped Allied soldiers and pilots who were trapped in France to get back to Great Britain. The men and women of the Resistance came from all levels of society and different religions.

The Allied armies helped the French Resistance by giving them guns and explosives. It was very dangerous to be a member of the French Resistance. Members who were caught by the Germans were often tortured and killed. When the Resistance killed a German officer, sometimes the Nazi army would kill large numbers of innocent civilians as a punishment.

The French Resistance helped the Allied armies to advance through France in 1944. After the invasion of Normandy on 6 June 1944, and the invasion of Provence on 15 August, they gave the Allies information about the German defenses. The Resistance also sabotaged the electrical power grid, transportation methods, and telecommunications networks. During the Nazi occupation of France, the resistance was an inspiring example of patriotic behavior and bravery.

When the war was over, the Resistance executed about 9,000 French people who were working to help the Nazis. This included many members of the Milices, a fascist organization that helped Nazi Germany.

Juraj Dobrila University of Pula

The Juraj Dobrila University of Pula () is a university in the city of Pula, Croatia. It was created in 2006. As of 2011, the university had about 2,465 students.

The Juraj Dobrila University of Pula is an entirely integrated university, consisting of five departments:


Paul Baum

Paul Baum (22 September 1859 – 15 May 1932) was a German painter. At first he was an Impressionist painter, but later developed to be a Post-Impressionist. He was one of the main post-impressionist German artists. He worked as a teacher at different art schools. Today, he is mostly known for his landscape paintings. Most of the landscapes were from Flanders or the Netherlands.

Rhythm section

A rhythm section is the group of musicians in a rock music, jazz, or country music group who play their instruments to set out the pulse or beat of the music. This is played in accompaniment to the rest of the band. Some of the rhythm section instruments, such as the guitar and the piano, also play the chord progression (sequence of chords) that a song is based upon. Some rhythm section instruments, such as the drums and percussion, are just used to set out the beat. Most rhythm sections include a bass instrument, such as the bass guitar or the double bass, which plays the deep, low notes of the chord progression.

Middle Angles

The Middle Angles were an important ethnic group in the kingdom of Mercia during the Anglo-Saxon period. It is probable that Angles moved into the Midlands from East Anglia early in the 6th century. The area they occupied is now centred around modern Leicestershire and Northamptonshire. They were in place before the reign of Penda (c.626-655). He made his eldest son, Peada, King of the Middle Angles in 653. For some time they kept their own identity in Mercia. The Middle Angles had their own bishop based in Leicester.


Lap dance

A lap dance is a type of sex work performed in some strip clubs (clubs in which women or men take off their clothes as they dance to music). In this, a dancer performs an erotic dance either contacting their body (contact dancing) with a seated patron or within a very short distance of a seated patron.

The dancer may be naked, topless or wearing a bikini top and bottom, depending on the laws in the jurisdiction of the strip club and the club's policies. With full-contact lap dances, the stripper may engage in contact with the patron, such as pressing his or her body against the patron. Different types include a "couch dance", which is a lap dance where the customer is seated on a couch, and bed dance where the customer lies down on a bed. 

In some clubs, a "block session" of lap dance (usually half an hour to an hour) can be booked in a "champagne room", which is a private room in the back of a club. In many clubs, the duration of a lap dance is measured by the length of the song being played by the club's DJ. Charges for lap dances vary.

Depending on the local jurisdiction and community standards, lap dances can involve touching of the dancer by the patron, touching the patron by the dancer, neither, or both. In some clubs, any touching by the patron is forbidden. On the other hand, if a club does not enforce its rules, levels of contact may be negotiable between the participants. Clubs vary widely with regard to whether they enforce their rules or ignore any violations.

Critics of lapdancing say that some club owners, by installing dark private booths and charging dancers high stage fees to work at the club, are encouraging the sale of sexual acts between customers and dancers. According to the UK paper The Guardian, "Research shows that the majority of women become lap-dancers through poverty and lack of other jobs".

Ludeca of Mercia

Ludeca ( 827) was a Mercian nobleman and ealdorman. At the death of Beornwulf in 826 he became the King of Mercia. He ruled what was left of Mercia after Beornwulf's defeat by Egbert of Wessex at the Battle of Ellandun. He ruled Mercia until his own death, barely a year later. 

In 824 two of King Beornwulf are witnessed by Ludeca, then a member of his court. His title on those charters is . Nothing else is known of Ludeca. At Beornwulf's death he became king. But the kingdom Ludeca now ruled was just Mercia, Lindsey, Middle Anglia and the Mercian provinces of the Hwicce and Magonsæte. All of southern England was in disorder. Egbert of Wessex now had control of Essex and Kent. He had the revolt by the East Anglians that resulted in Beornwulf's death. The East Anglians saw this as a chance for their independence from Mercia. A few months later Ludeca led his army against them but he was killed. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle for 825 (actual year 827) recorded: "In this year Ludecan, king of the Mercians, was slain, and his five aldormen [ealdormen] with him, and Wiglaf succeeded to the kingdom."


Chamberlain, South Dakota

Chamberlain is a city in the central part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Brule County, and it is located along the Missouri River, across from Oacoma. It became a city in 1881, and 2,473 people lived there at the 2020 census.


Strip club

A strip club is a type of club that has performers who dance while removing their clothes and have security protect strip club. Most strip clubs are also bars which serve alcohol. Many communities have rules on strip clubs, such as rules on how many strip clubs are allowed to exist in the community, rules on the minimum distance that must be kept between dancers and customers, or rules on what clothing cannot be taken off (e.g. panties).

Some strip clubs offer lap dancing, which is a type of sex work that typically involves a female dancer pressing her body against a male customer for a fee.

Strip clubs can be a source of debates in a community. Iceland banned strip clubs for feminist reasons while in Britain there is still discussion about whether they are positive for women.

Paul Mantee

Paul Mantee (January 9, 1931 – November 7, 2013) was an American movie and television actor. He was known for his roles in "Cagney & Lacey", "Simon & Simon", "Barnaby Jones", and in "Quincy, M.E.".

Mantee was born Paul Marianetti in San Francisco, California on January 9, 1931. He studied at San Mateo Junior College. Mantee enlisted in the U.S. Navy for four years during the Korean War that made him decide on acting as a career. 

He was married to Suzy Davis Mantee. He was formerly married to actress Ann Newman. Mantee died on November 7, 2013 in his Los Angeles, California home from prostate cancer, aged 82.


Scott Carpenter

Malcolm Scott Carpenter (May 1, 1925 – October 10, 2013) was an American test pilot, astronaut, and aquanaut. He was one of the original seven astronauts selected for NASA's Project Mercury in April 1959. Carpenter was the second American to orbit the Earth and the fourth American in space, following Alan Shepard, Gus Grissom, and John Glenn.

He was married to feminist columnist Rene Carpenter.

Carpenter had a stroke and entered The Denver Hospice Inpatient Care Center at Lowry, Denver, Colorado where he died on October 10, 2013. He was 88 years old. 


Regions of the Philippines

In the Philippines, regions (Tagalog: "rehiyon") are administrative divisions that serve primarily to organize the provinces ("lalawigan") of the country for administrative convenience. Most government offices are established by region instead of individual provincial offices, usually (but not always) in the city that is the regional center.

The regions themselves do not possess a separate local government, with the exception of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, which has an elected regional assembly and governor.

The Philippines has 17 administrative regions. Fourteen of these regions are designated with numbers corresponding to their geographic location in order from north to south. The National Capital Region, Cordillera Administrative Region, and Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao do not have numerical designations.

These regions are geographically combined into the three island groups of Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. Following is a list of the regions in their island groupings.

The regions CALABARZON, MIMAROPA, and SOCCSKSARGEN are written with upper case characters because they are acronyms that stand for their component provinces or cities. CALABARZON stands for CAvite, LAguna, BAtangas, Rizal and QueZON; MIMAROPA stands for Occidental and Oriental MIndoro, MArinduque, ROmblon and PAlawan; and SOCCSKSARGEN stands for SOuth Cotabato, Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, SARangani and GENeral Santos.



Luciano Vincenzoni

Luciano Vincenzoni (7 March 1926 – 22 September 2013) was an Italian screenwriter, known as the "script doctor". He wrote for some 65 movies between 1954 and 2000. He is known for his works in "For a Few Dollars More" (1965) and "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" in 1966, but he also wrote for a number of other Spaghetti westerns.


Poseur

Poseur (or poser) is a negative term used by some subcultures. It describes a person who copies the style or mannerisms of a subculture, but who is not considered to belong to it. It implies that the person is fake, and is considered not to share or understand the values or philosophy of that culture.

A person may copy the style of a particular subculture to be accepted within that group or for popularity among various other groups.

The term is often used in the punk, heavy metal, hip hop, and goth subcultures, or the skateboarding and surfing communities. For example, in the hardcore punk scene, older punks may view a young punk with an "anarchy" symbol on their shirt as a poseur if the older punks think the young punk does not understand what the symbol means.

Merton College, Oxford

Merton College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1264 by Walter de Merton, who was the Chancellor to Henry III and Edward I. It claims to be the oldest college in Oxford, although Balliol College and University College also claim to be the oldest.

Construction of the college at its present location began in the 1270s. Its buildings are among the oldest in Oxford. Mob Quad at Merton College was built in the 14th Century. It is often said to be the oldest quadrangle at Oxford or Cambridge. Other quadrangles at Oxford and Cambridge, however, may be older.

J.R.R. Tolkien was a professor of English Language and Literature at Merton College.

Blunt trauma

Blunt trauma is a kind of trauma that usually results from being hit by something dull and firm (like a car, a fist, or the ground). It is also called blunt force trauma. This is different from penetrating trauma where an object, such as a bullet enters the body.

Common types of blunt force trauma include:

If blunt force trauma is not too severe, it may cause only cuts (lacerations), bruises (contusions), and scrapes (abrasions). However, bad blunt force trauma can cause many serious problems, like:

Christopher Koch

Christopher John Koch AO (16 July 1932 – 23 September 2013) was an Australian novelist. He is best known for his 1978 novel "The Year of Living Dangerously", which was made into an award-winning movie. 

He won the Miles Franklin Award twice; "The Doubleman" in 1985, and "Highways to a War" in 1996. In 1995 he was made an Officer of the Order of Australia for contribution to Australian literature.

Koch was born in Hobart, Tasmania in 16 July 1932. He was educated at Clemes College, St Virgil's College, Hobart High School and the University of Tasmania.

Koch died at his home in Hobart on 23 September 2013, aged 81. He had been diagnosed with prostate cancer twelve months earlier.


Stein Grieg Halvorsen

Halvor Bernt Stein Grieg Halvorsen (19 October 1909 – 11 November 2013) was a Norwegian stage actor.

Halvorsen was born in Oslo, Norway on 19 October 1909. He was married to Elizabeth Thaulow from 1940 until her death in 1968. Then he was married to Vibeke Falk from 1971 until his death in 2013.

His son, Stein Johan Grieg Halvorsen, is half of the comedy duo "Erlend & SteinJo", who rose to fame in the 1990s. 

Halvorsen died of natural causes on 11 November 2013 in his Oslo, Norway home. He died three weeks after his 104th birthday.

Shirley Mitchell

Shirley Mitchell (November 4, 1919 – November 11, 2013) was an American radio, movie, and television actress. She was known for her role as Marion Strong in "I Love Lucy" in which she appeared in only three episodes. 

Mitchell was born in Toledo, Ohio on November 4, 1919. She studied at the University of Toledo and at the University of Michigan. Mitchell was married to Julian Frieden from 1946 until they divorced in 1974. Then she was married to Jay Livingston from 1992 until his death in 2001. She had two children with Frieden. Mitchell died on November 11, 2013 in Westwood, California from natural causes, aged 94.


University College, Oxford

University College is one of the colleges of Oxford University. The full name of University College is "The Masters and Fellows of the Great Hall of the University of Oxford". It is commonly called simply "The Univ".

According to legend, the college was founded by Alfred the Great in 872. Most historians agree, however, that the college originated in 1249 from a bequest by William of Durham. The college claims to be the oldest at Oxford. Balliol College and Merton College also claim to be the oldest college in Oxford.

The current buildings of the college were begun in the 17th Century.

Famous former students include British Prime Ministers Clement Attlee and Harold Wilson, American President Bill Clinton, Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke, authors Percy Bysshe Shelley, C.S. Lewis, and V. S. Naipaul, and physicist Stephen Hawking.

In 1979 The Univ started letting female undergraduate students study there.


Al Ruscio

Alfred Ruscio (June 2, 1924 – November 12, 2013) was an American actor who appeared in many television series and movies. He was known for his roles in "Showgirls", "The Godfather Part III", "MacGyver", "The A-Team", and in "Seinfeld".

Ruscio was born on June 2, 1924 in Salem, Massachusetts to Italian parents. He studied at Salem High School and at the Neighborhood Playhouse. Ruscio was married to Kate Williamson from 1954 until his death in 2013. They had four children. Ruscio died on November 12, 2013 in Los Angeles, California from renal failure, aged 89.


Karla Álvarez

Karla Mercedes Álvarez Báez (15 October 1972 – 15 November 2013) was a Mexican actress. She was best known for her roles including "Maria Mercedes" and "Alma Rebelde" and as a contestant for "Big Brother VIP" in 2003. 

Álvarez was born on 15 October 1972 in Mexico City, Mexico. She was married to Alexis Ayala until they divorced. On 15 November 2013, Álvarez was found dead at her apartment in Mexico City due to respiratory failure. She was rumored to have suffered from alcoholism and allegedly had an eating disorder.

Harrisburg, South Dakota

Harrisburg is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in Lincoln County, about three miles south of Sioux Falls. It became a city in 1873, and 6,732 people lived there at the 2020 census.


John Y. McCollister

John Yetter McCollister (June 10, 1921 – November 1, 2013) was an American politician. He was a Nebraska Republican politician. He served two terms from 1965 to 1970 as the Douglas County Commissioner. 

He was a delegate to the Nebraska State Republican conventions from 1960 to 1970, and delegate to the 1968 Republican National Convention. In 1976, he decided to run instead for U.S. Senate but was unsuccessful, losing to Omaha Mayor Edward Zorinsky by a 53% to 47% margin. He was a presidential elector for Nebraska in 2000. 

McCollister was born in Iowa City, Iowa on June 10, 1921. In 1939 he graduated from Washington High School in Sioux Falls, South Dakota and in 1943 he graduated from the University of Iowa in Iowa City. 

He was married to Nanette Stokes from 1943 until his death in 2013. McCollister died on November 1, 2013 in Omaha, Nebraska from prostate cancer, aged 92.


William J. Coyne

William Joseph Coyne (August 24, 1936 – November 3, 2013) was an American politician. He was a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from Pennsylvania. 

Coyne was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He graduated from Central Catholic High School in 1954, and received a B.S. in accounting from Robert Morris College. 

Coyne was elected to Congress in 1980, succeeding 24-year incumbent William S. Moorhead in a district taking in most of Pittsburgh. He was reelected ten times, never facing serious opposition. He was a longtime member of the United States House Committee on Ways and Means

In 2002, Coyne's district was combined with the district of Mike Doyle, a somewhat more moderate Democrat. Although the new district contained more of Coyne's territory than Doyle's, Coyne retired to avoid the possibility of two Democratic incumbents facing each other in the primary elections. 

Coyne died at the age of 77 on November 3, 2013, two months after falling and sustaining head injuries in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.


Tea, South Dakota

Tea is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in Lincoln County, about two miles southwest of Sioux Falls. It became a city in 1894, and 5,598 people lived there at the 2020 census.


Winner, South Dakota

Winner is a city in the southern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Tripp County, and it also administrates nearby Todd County, which does not have a county seat. It became a city in 1911, and 2,921 people lived there at the 2020 census.


Bar

Bar or BAR can refer to several things:

Hartford, South Dakota

Hartford is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, about ten miles west of Sioux Falls. It became a city in 1878, and 3,354 people lived there at the 2020 census.


Saloon

Saloon can mean several things:


Flandreau, South Dakota

Flandreau is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Moody County. It became a city in 1902, and 2,372 people lived there at the 2020 census.


Battle of Ellandun

The Battle of Ellandun (also spelled Ellendun) was fought in 825 between the armies of Egbert of Wessex and Beornwulf of Mercia. Although costly to both sides, King Egbert won. The battle effectively brought an end to Mercian in southern England. It gave Wessex over the remaining Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the south. A century later the kingdom of Wessex became the kingdom of England.

Vikings murdered every one during the 8th century and early 9th centuries, the kings of Mercia exercised varying degrees of overlordship over the kingdoms of south-eastern England. Some even ruled other kingdoms directly. While Wessex had at times been obliged to recognise the power of Mercian kings there was usually a strong resistance to allowing them to directly rule Wessex.

Beorhtric of Wessex (786–802) had probably received help from Offa of Mercia (757–796) in becoming king of Wessex. In 789 he married Eadburh, Offa's daughter. For the remainder of his rule Wessex was subordinate to Mercia. At the time Beorhtric became king, Egbert was also a claimant. Edgar was exiled for a time from Wessex and spent most of his time at the court of Charlemagne. On the death of Beorhtric Egbert returned and succeeded to the throne. At this time Coenwulf of Mercia (796–821) was king and he concluded a peace treaty with Wessex.

In 815 Egbert invaded Cornwall and brought it under his rule. He allowed sub-kings to rule it for him. 
Beginning in 825 Egbert began a series of military operations with the intent of increasing his over Wales. At the same time the new king of Mercia, Beornwulf, having had extended his authority over Kent, Essex and Middlesex decided to invade Wessex.

Egbert was in Cornwall with his army when he received word that the Mercians had invaded Wessex. He led his army back into Wessex and met Beornwulf and his army at Ellendun (now Wroughton south of Swindon). In what Frank Stenton called "one of the most decisive battles of Anglo-Saxon history", Egbert defeated Beornwulf. The battle was costly to both sides in loss of life. Henry of Huntingdon said the river ran red with blood. The victory over Mercia shifted the balance of power to Egbert. He was now the most accomplished king in southern England.

Immediately Egbert sent his son Athelwulf with an army to overthrow Baldred, the Mercian sub-king in Kent. As a result, all of Kent, Surrey, Sussex and East Anglia submitted to Egbert. Beornwulf tried to recover East Anglia later the same year and was killed in the attempt. Kent, Surrey and Sussex remained a part of the kingdom of Wessex from this time on. Egbert appointed his son Athelwulf as sub-king of Kent which included all the new territories of Wessex.

In 829 Egbert invaded, then defeated all of Mercia. Wiglaf was exiled. The king of Northumbria submitted to him after the defeat of Mercia. He assumed the title (King of Mercia). This title was also on coins made in the former Mercian port of London. In 830 Wiglaf returned to power in Mercia, but the gains of Kent and southwest England remained with Wessex. Egbert died 4 February 839. He left a territory larger than any other Wessex king since Ine.

Extreme Championship Wrestling

Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) was a professional wrestling company that ran from April 25, 1992 to April 4, 2001. The company was known for its hardcore style of wrestling as well as Mexican (lucha libre) and Japanese (puroresu) styles of wrestling.

The company was originally known as Eastern Championship Wrestling and was owned by Tod Gordon. It was then renamed Extreme Championship Wrestling and Paul Heyman was brought in as the new owner after Tod Gordon sold ECW to him in 1995. The World Wrestling Federation (now known as WWE) purchased Extreme Championship Wrestling after Heyman filed for bankruptcy on April 4, 2001.

WWE made a pay-per-view called ECW One Night Stand on June 12, 2005 which featured former ECW wrestlers. They made another ECW One Night Stand on June 11, 2006 which helped introduce the restart of the ECW franchise as a WWE brand like Raw and SmackDown. Paul Heyman was also brought back to be the new figurehead for the ECW brand and he reintroduced the ECW World Heavyweight Championship as the brand's world title. He gave it to Rob Van Dam after Van Dam won the WWE Championship at the 2006 One Night Stand. The brand existed until February 16, 2010.


Trinomen

In zoology, the name that designates a subspecies is called Trinomen. It has three parts: It contains the name of the species and adds a qualifying name.

New Centre-Right

New Centre-Right (, NCD) is a political party in Italy.

It was created on 15 November 2013 by Angelino Alfano. It split from Silvio Berlusconi's The People of Freedom party.

Pawn shop

A pawn shop (also called a pawnshop or pawnbroker) is a shop or business who loans money to people who bring in valuable items which they leave with the pawnbroker. Examples of items that a person may leave are jewelry, gold, watches, cameras, musical instruments, televisions or gadgets like computers, smart phones or tablets.

The valuables that people leave are called the "collateral". The person can get their valuable item back from the pawnbroker if they pay back the money they were loaned and pay interest on the loan. Interest is like a fee for getting to use someone else's money for a set time period. If the person who has borrowed money from the pawnbroker does not repay the loan and interest within an agreed-upon time limit, the pawnbroker can sell the valuable item to another customer to get back the money they loaned.

To prevent thieves from using pawnshops as a way to get money from stolen goods, many communities have laws requiring that people who bring in valuable items to the pawnshop have to show identification, such as a driver's licence.

The Road Warriors

The Road Warriors were a professional wrestling tag team. They competed in many different professional wrestling promotions. They were known for competing in American Wrestling Association, the National Wrestling Alliance, World Championship Wrestling, and World Wrestling Federation. The team's originally member were Road Warrior Hawk and Road Warrior Animal. 

They were joined by their manager "Precious" Paul Ellering. Droz joined the team after an angle happened that was based off of Road Warrior Hawk’s real life alcohol and drug issues. The angle even went so far as to fake a suicide jump off the top of the TitanTron. The angle bombed and both members said that they disliked it and left the WWF in 1999. Their last TV appearance as a team was on the May 12, 2003 Raw episode when they faced the then-WWE World Tag Team Champions, Rob Van Dam and Kane. Road Warrior Hawk died on October 19, 2003 from heart attack.

Animal returned to the WWE in 2005 and teamed with Heidenreich. They won the WWE Tag Team Championship after defeating MNM at The Great American Bash on July 24, 2005. Heidenreich became an official member of the LOD on August 18, 2005. They were also manged by Christy Hemme during that time. They lost the tag team titles on the October 28, 2005 edition of SmackDown! to MNM in a Fatal Four-Way tag match that also featured Paul Burchill and William Regal and The Mexicools (Super Crazy and Psicosis).

Heidenreich was released from WWE on January 17, 2006 and Animal was released a few months later.

On April 2, 2011, The Road Warriors along with Paul Ellering were inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Dusty Rhodes.


Tipping

A tip (also called a gratuity) is an amount of money given as gratitude to somebody who has provided a service. It is normally in addition to any fee that is charged. It is a custom in many societies. For example, after people finish eating dinner at a restaurant, even after they have paid the bill for the food, they leave some extra money on the table to thank the server.

Tipping and the amount of money that people give as tips varies between countries. In some locations tipping is discouraged and considered insulting. In other locations tipping is expected from customers. The tip can be a specific range of money or a percentage of the bill, such as 15 percent or 20 percent. In some circumstances, such as with government workers in some areas, giving tips is against the law. Some restaurants charge a service charge and add it onto the bill. In this case, you do not have to leave a tip. For many service workers, like servers, bartenders, and taxi drivers, tips are an important part of their income.

Bass amplifier

Bass instrument amplification is an amplifier used for bass guitars, double bass and similar instruments. It makes the sound they make louder. It is different from other types of amplification systems because it is difficult to reproduce low-frequency sounds (bass). Bass amps need strong loudspeakers, and a relatively larger speaker cabinet. Speaker cabinets for bass instrument amplification usually have larger (or more) loudspeakers than those used for the amplification of other instruments. The loudspeakers themselves must also be sturdier to handle the higher power levels.

Norwegian resistance movement

During World War II, Norway was occupied by Nazi Germany. The Norwegian Resistance was a rebellion by Norwegians against the invasion and occupation by the Nazis. It lasted from 1940 to 1945. It supported the Norwegian government that was formed outside of the country as the true government of Norway. They discouraged Norwegians from following the pro-Nazi Norwegian government formed by Vidkun Quisling. 

The Norwegian Resistance helped the original members of the Norwegian government to escape from Norway. They were lucky that they escaped alive, because the Germans tried to kill them. They managed to get to the coast where a British warship picked them up.

The Norwegian Resistance also carried out armed resistance against the Nazi soldiers. This included sabotage (breaking or destroying things), assassinations, and exploding German ships with bombs. The Norwegian Resistance also did unarmed civil disobedience actions, like protests.

Lennox, South Dakota

Lennox is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Lincoln County. It became a city in 1889, and 2,423 people lived there at the 2020 census. And it has the best marching bands in the state.


Vidkun Quisling

Vidkun Quisling (18 July 1887 – 24 October 1945) was a Norwegian politician. He was involved in the German invasion of Norway during World War II. On 9 April 1940, with the invasion in progress, he seized power of the country. In 1942 with the help of he Nazis he became Prime Minister. 

His government helped the Nazi German government to find Jews, who were then killed. In 1945, when Germany lost the war, Vidkun was put on trial for high treason. He was found guilty, and then executed by firing squad. Today, the name "quisling" is still used as a way of calling someone a traitor.

North Sioux City, South Dakota

North Sioux City is a city in the far southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Union County, near the junction of the Missouri River and the Big Sioux River. North Sioux City is near the borders of Iowa and Nebraska, and it is a suburb of Sioux City, Iowa. It became a city in 1951, and 3,042 people lived there at the 2020 census.


Hertford College, Oxford

Hertford College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The full name of the college is the Principal, Fellows and Scholars of Hertford College in the University of Oxford. It is best-known for its bridge, called "The Bridge of Sighs".

Hertford was originally known as "Hart Hall". The land for Hart Hall was bought by Elias de Hertford in 1282. Hart Hall was a residence for students at other colleges in Oxford. In 1312, Hart Hall was purchased by Walter de Stapledon, who was the Bishop of Exeter. De Stapledon founded Exeter College and Hart Hall was controlled by Exeter College for many years.

In 1710, William Newton became the Principal of Hart Hall. In 1723, Newton formally proposed that Hart Hall be chartered as its own college. In 1740 a charter was granted for the new Hertford College. After Newton died, however, the college declined, and it was dissolved in 1816.

The grounds of the college was taken over by Magdalen Hall. Magdalen Hall began as a grammar school associated with Magdalen College in 1480. Magdalen Hall moved to the site of the former Hertford College in 1822. It grew at the new site, and in 1874, Magdalen Hall was given a charter as Hertford College. The new name was chosen so that it would not be confused with Magdalen College, and because it was on the location of the former Hertford College.

Survivor Series (2012)

Survivor Series (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on November 18, 2012 at the Bankers Life Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, Indiana. It was the twenty sixth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


Norwegian campaign

The German invasion of Norway occurred on 8 April 1940 during World War II and led to battles between the Allies and Germany.

In April 1940, the United Kingdom and France decided to help Norway by sending soldiers and warships. The Allies had to withdraw, and the Norwegian government had to escape from Norway and seek exile in London. Even though the Germans occupied Norway, some Norwegians formed the Norwegian resistance and kept fighting the Germans. Norway held off the Germans for 62 days, which made Norway the nation that withstood a German invasion for the second-longest period of time, after the Soviet Union.

Sexless marriage

A sexless marriage is a marriage in which the partners do not have sex very often or at all. The U.S. National Health and Social Life Survey in 1994 (Laumann et al. 1994) found that 2 percent of the married people who answered said they did not have sex in the past year. The definition of a sexless marriage is often broadened, to include marriages where sex occurs less than ten times per year. Using this definition, 20 percent of the couples in the National Health and Social Life Survey would be in the category. "Newsweek" magazine says that 15 to 20 percent of couples in the U.S. are in a sexless relationship. Sexlessness means being without sexual activity. Sexlessness is sometimes promoted by some religious groups. This includes religious groups promoting abstinence or celibacy. There are also cultural groups who promote some types of sexlessness. These include groups like fapstinence or nofappers. Sexlessness among lesbian couples is called "lesbian bed death". Some studies show that females gays are more likely to have sexlessness in their relationship than male gays. But sexlessness can also be harmful for allosexual adults. For example sexlessness in allosexual adults can cause death-grip syndrome or genital atrophy. Besides death-grip syndrome and genital atrophy, sexlessness can also cause emotional unhappiness and low self-esteem.

Insignificance

Insignificance is a feeling that nothing you do matters, or that you are not important. People may feel this for many reasons. For example, having low self-esteem, being depressed, living in a large city with many people, comparing themselves to rich celebrity success stories, working in a large bureaucracy, or being in awe of a natural wonder.

People living in crowded, major cities may face feelings of insignificance. George Simmel says that when people live in a big city, they may start to feel like "...just another face in the crowd", it can "lead to feelings of insignificance...".

Emptiness

Emptiness is a sense of general boredom, feeling socially separated from other people, and feeling that you do not care any more. Feelings of emptiness often accompany depression, loneliness, or despair. A sense of emptiness is also part of a natural process of grief, caused by separation from or the death of somebody you love.

While Christianity and Western sociologists and psychologists consider a state of emptiness as a negative, bad condition, in some Eastern philosophies such as Buddhist philosophy and Taoism, emptiness is seen as a real achievement.

Jameela Jamil

Jameela Jamil (born 25 February 1986) is a British television and radio presenter. She hosts "The Official Chart" on BBC Radio 1. 

Jamil was born in Hampstead, London to an India father and an English mother.

In 2012 the first collection by 'JAM by Jameela Jamil' was released on Very.co.uk.

Jamil played Tahani on "The Good Place", a sitcom that ran from 2016 to 2020. It won a Peabody Award in 2019.


Suppressive fire

In the military, suppressive fire (also called "covering fire") is shooting that hinders an enemy force so they cannot fulfill their mission (what they were trying to do). This hindrance usually only works for as long as the machine gun or artillery gun is being shot.

Elk Point, South Dakota

Elk Point is a city in the far southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Union County, and 2,149 people lived there at the 2020 census. Elk Point became a city in 1873.


Primarily Obsessional OCD

Primarily obsessional obsessive-compulsive disorder (also called purely obsessional OCD) is a less common type of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). People with primarily obsessional OCD have different types of compulsions. These compulsions are more difficult to see than ones that people with regular OCD have (such as checking things, counting things, and washing their hands). People with primarily obsessional OCD may do rituals. These mostly happen in their mind. Primarily obsessional OCD can give people bad thoughts. These thoughts may be scary or violent.


Tel Aviv Bauhaus Center

The Bauhaus Center is a gallery, shop and information center for the Bauhaus (modernist) architecture of Tel Aviv. It is a private institution, working together with public organizations such as Tel Aviv City Hall and UNESCO. It is located at 77 Dizengoff Street in the White City of Tel Aviv area.


Worthing, South Dakota

Worthing is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in Lincoln County, about ten miles south of Sioux Falls. It became a city in 1879, and 927 people lived there at the 2020 census. Since 2010, Worthing has been the home of the LifeLight Music Festival, the largest free music festival in the world.


Carla Bruni

Carla Bruni, now known by her name of use Carla Bruni-Sarkozy (born Carla Gilberta Bruni Tedeschi; 23 December 1967 in Turin, Italy) is an Italian-French singer, songwriter and former model. From 2008 to 2012, Bruni was the First Lady of France.

She married then President of the French Republic Nicolas Sarkozy in February 2008. They have one child.


M4 carbine

The M4 carbine is a direct impingement, select fire carbine, chambered in 5.56 NATO. The M4 carbine is the main infantry rifle issued to the U.S. military and others around the world. The M4 family is a carbine offshoot of the M16 rifle. (A carbine is shorter than a rifle, longer than a pistol, and is usually fitted with an 11-18" barrel)

The M4 utilizes a Direct Gas Impingement system to cycle the action, meaning there is gas vented from the barrel, which travels through the gas tube, back into the upper receiver. This gas pushes the bolt carrier back which, consequently, discharges the fired cartridge, cocks the hammer, and reloads the chamber to fire the next round. The M4 is fitted with a 14.5 inch barrel, and is classified as an . (Short Barreled Rifle) An SBR is a "pistol" fitted with a barrel shorter than 16", and is allowed to be fitted with a stock and vertical foregrip. The M4 family of rifles is chambered in the venerable 5.56 NATO round, the same round that the M16 family and AR-15 family of rifles fires.

The M4 can be fired in either the semi-automatic setting (one round fired per trigger pull), or the three-round burst setting ("burst fire" is the term used for the mechanical limitation of the full-auto function of the rifle from "full-auto" to firing up to three rounds when trigger is depressed). The M4A1 is the full-auto variant of the M4 . The carbine can be fitted with an M203 as well as the newer M320 grenade launcher. The M4 can be fitted with many accessories, such as night vision devices, silencers, boxes, telescopic sights, bipods, an under-barrel shotgun, and 1913 rail-mounted .

The United States Marine Corps (USMC) has ordered its officers (up to the rank of lieutenant colonel) and non-commissioned officers to carry the M4 carbine instead of the M9 pistol. The M4 is also widely used by police officers, along with the AR-15.

The plastic pistol was developed and produced for the United States government by , which had an exclusive contract to produce the M4 family of weapons through 2009. Colt previously held a U.S. trademark on the term "M4".

Other manufacturers offer M4-like firearms. Many manufacturers have production firearms that look and function close to the M4. A civilian model is sometimes colloquially referred to as an "M4gery", a portmanteau word from "M4" and "forgery". 

Colt said it held sole rights to the M4 name and design. Other manufacturers said that Colt was overstating its rights, and that "M4" was now a generic term for a shortened AR-15. On December 8, 2005, a District court judge ruled that "M4" "was" now a generic name, and that Colt's trademark should be revoked.

Montrose, South Dakota

Montrose is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 468 people lived there at the 2020 census. Montrose became a city in 1880.


Derek Walcott

Derek Alton Walcott, OBE OCC (23 January 1930 – 17 March 2017) was a Saint Lucian poet and playwright. He was awarded the 1992 Nobel Prize in Literature. He served as Professor of poetry at the University of Essex until his death in 2017.

His works include the Homeric epic poem, "Omeros" (1990). In besides to having won the Nobel, Walcott has won many literary awards over the course of his career including an Obie Award in 1971 for his play "Dream on Monkey Mountain", a MacArthur Foundation "genius" award, a Royal Society of Literature Award, the Queen's Medal for Poetry, and the 2011 T. S. Eliot Prize for his book of poetry, "White Egrets".

Walcott was born on 23 January 1930 in Castries, Saint Lucia. 

Walcott died at his home in St. Lucia on 17 March 2017. He was 87.



Colton, South Dakota

Colton is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 738 people lived there at the 2020 census. Colton became a city in 1904.


Humboldt, South Dakota

Humboldt is a town in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 579 people lived there at the 2020 census. Humboldt became a town in 1891.


JW-Jones

JW-Jones (born July 15, 1980 in Ottawa) is a Canadian blues guitarist, singer and songwriter. Jones was the first artist signed to the NorthernBlues Music label in Toronto. He released his first six recordings with the label. He still records for CrossCut Records in Europe, and has previously worked with Ruf Records in United States. In the last decade, he has released seven albums and played in 19 countries, four continents. He continues to tour extensively. Jones lives who lives in Ottawa, Ontario. He has performed at blues festivals, theatres and clubs in Canada, the United States, Europe, Russia, Australia, and Brazil.

Jones' third album with his band, "My Kind Of Evil" (2004), was produced by Kim Wilson (singer for The Fabulous Thunderbirds). It includes vocals from Colin James on two tracks, and Roxanne Potvin on one. Songs from the album have been played on House of Blues Radio Hour. Music reviewer Brad Wheeler from Canada's "Globe and Mail" newspaper praised the "graceful ability he (Jones) shows on guitar" in the album. Wheeler stated that "...the Ottawa player makes retro moves, layering swinging blues with keyboards and very noticeable horns that never dominate the fine-lined fills and lead work." The Allmusic review of "My Kind of Evil", by Chris Nickson, states that "He's very good on covers, such as "I Don't Know", but his own songs — the vast majority of this disc — have plenty of life."

In May 2009, Jones' song "Parasomnia" appeared on a "Guitar World" featured CD, "Guitar Masters Vol. 2". Other artists on the CD were B. B. King, Jimmy Page, Jeff Beck, and Carlos Santana. The "Globe and Mail" referred to Jones as "one of this country's top blues guitar stars". The "Blues Revue Magazine" stated that Jones' guitar playing is like T-Bone Walker's guitar playing. The review said that JW-Jones plays solo melodies like Johnny "Guitar" Watson, and that his guitar playing is like Clarence "Gatemouth" Brown. "Billboard" called Jones part of "a new wave of young talent moving onto Canada’s blues stage."

Parker, South Dakota

Parker is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Turner County, and 1,194 people lived there at the 2020 census. Parker became a city in 1883.


Freeman, South Dakota

Freeman is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Hutchinson County, and 1,329 people lived there at the 2020 census. Freeman became a city in 1893.


Midterm exam

A midterm exam is a test given around the middle of a term in schools.

Midterm exams can be given for several reasons. First, it allows a student to see if they need to change how they study for the class (if they do not do well on the exam) or if they should continue to study the same way for the rest of the term (if they do well). This tells a student who does not do well that they should drop the class. Many colleges stop allowing students to drop a class a week or two after the first midterm exam. Midterm exams can also show how well a teacher is doing in teaching their class. Some teachers give more than one midterm exam.

Survivor Series (2010)

Survivor Series (2010) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 21, 2010 at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida. It was the twenty fourth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


Big Brother (British series 8)

Big Brother 2007 (or Big Brother 8) was the eighth series of the British reality television series "Big Brother". It was shown on Channel 4. Some other, related programmes were shown on E4. The series was hosted by Davina McCall. It began on 30 May 2007, and ended 94 days later on 31 August 2007. Ratings for this series were very low compared to other series.

On the first night of the show, all the housemates who entered were female. Male housemates were sent in later, at intervals over the first two weeks. Another five housemates (three females, and two males) entered the house on the 59th day. In total, there were 22 housemates in total in this series of "Big Brother".

The series was eventually won by housemate Brian Belo. He won £100,000.

Hide (unit)

The hide was a unit of land measurement. Everywhere in Anglo-Saxon England except Kent it was the land held by a peasant and his family. Originally it was the amount of land necessary to support one household. The amount of land that made up one hide would vary from one part of Britain to another. This was because the quality of soil for growing food would be different. In places where the soil was very rich, a hide of land would be smaller. Where the soil was poor the hide would be larger. It was never a standard using fixed measurements. Later in Anglo-Saxon England a hide became a unit on which to base payment of or tax. The hide was also used to determine public obligations. This could be defending the local castle or providing soldiers for the local . Tenants paid rent based on how many hides they farmed.


Niggers in the White House

"Niggers in the White House" was a racist poem that first appeared in many American newspapers between 1901 and 1903. The author wrote it because he did not like Booker T. Washington, an African-American political leader, teacher and author, attending a dinner at the White House. Washington had been invited by President Theodore Roosevelt, who was white. Many years later, in 1929, the poem appeared again. This was after African-American congressman Oscar DePriest's wife went to a tea for congressional wives at the White House. She had been invited by First Lady Lou Hoover. Many white people, especially in the Southern United States, did not like either visit. They held the opinion then that African-American people should not be involved in government affairs.

The poem has fourteen stanzas. Each stanza has four lines. The second and fourth line of each stanza rhymes. The word "nigger" is seen many times in the poem. Nobody knows who wrote it.

Booker T. Washington was an African American born into slavery. He was freed in 1865 and rose to become an educator and a national leader of African Americans. On October 16, 1901, President Theodore Roosevelt asked Washington to have dinner with his family at the White House. It was a working dinner, Roosevelt's intention was to appoint Washington to advise him on issues of race. A family friend from Colorado, Philip Stewart was also there. A reporter from the AP Wire asked the president about his appointments he was going to announce the next day. But the story that appeared in the AP wire read: "Booker T. Washington, of Tuskegee, Alabala, dined with the President last evening." This caused some shock among many white people. The President of the United States had sat down to dinner with a black man, a former slave at that. African Americans had visited the White House before but had never been asked to dine there. Washington had dined with President McKinley previously which also caused an uproar at that time. This time segregationalists in the U.S. Congress were outraged. Senator "Pitchfork" Bill Tillman of South Carolina said, "The action will necessitate our killing a thousand niggers in the South before they will learn their place again."

After this, somebody decided to write the poem, "Niggers in the White House". No one knows who the author was.

Many years later, in 1929, First Lady Lou Hoover, wife of president Herbert Hoover, invited Congressional wife Jessie DePriest to join her for tea. She was a black woman married to Oscar DePriest, the first African American to be elected to Congress from Illinois. People were also upset about this. The poem appeared again because of this incident. Southern newspapers and racist critics reacted with their normal outrage and letters of protest. The White House spokesman pointed out the president and his wife were simply doing their constitutional duties. As examples President Grover Cleveland had hosted Frederick Douglass and his wife On five separate occasions president Woodrow Wilson met at the White House with the black minister from Haiti, Solon Menos. 

Politicians took sides. Senator Coleman Blease from South Carolina inserted the poem in a Senate resolution. The resolution with its poem were rejected and removed from the "Congressional Record." The vote was based on protests from senators Walter Edge (from New Jersey) and Hiram Bingham (from Connecticut). Senator Bingham described the poem as "indecent, obscene doggerel verse" which gave "offense to hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens and an offense to the Declaration of Independence and our Constitution." Senator Baise then agreed to withdraw the resolution he said, as a favor to Senator Bingham and not to the negro race.

Below are the first three stanzas of the poem.

<poem>I see a way to settle it
Just as clear as water,
Let Mr. Booker Washington
Marry Teddy's daughter.

Or, if this does not overflow
Teddy's cup of joy,
Then let Miss Dinah Washington
Marry Teddy's boy.

But everything is settled,
Roosevelt is dead;
Niggers in the White House
Cut off Teddy's head.</poem>


Titanium alloy

Titanium alloys are metals which contain a mixture of titanium and other chemical elements. They have very high tensile strength and toughness. They are light in weight, resist corrosion very strongly and can withstand extreme temperatures.

However, the cost of both raw materials and processing is very high. Therefore, their use is limited to military applications, aircraft, spacecraft, medical devices, connecting rods on expensive sports cars and some high quality sports equipment and consumer electronics.


Carbine

A carbine is a lighter, shorter type of rifle. The smaller size and lighter weight of carbines makes them easier to handle. They are often issued to high-mobility troops such as special-ops soldiers and paratroopers. Also they can be used by mounted or other non-infantry personnel who do not need full-sized rifles.

The U.S. M4 carbine is a classic example. Continuous-fire versions may also be described as submachine guns

Monty Brown

Monty Brown (born April 13, 1970) is a American former professional wrestler and American football linebacker. He is best known for working with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring name Marcus Cor Von. He wrestled on their ECW brand. He also worked for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling from 2002 to 2006.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Brown played football at Ferris State University. He graduated and was picked up by the Buffalo Bills. He played 3 seasons with the Bills including Super Bowl XXVIII in 1994. He then played a season with the New England Patriots before retiring because of an ankle injury and to train to become a professional wrestler.



Ingrid Newkirk

Ingrid Newkirk (born June 11, 1949) is an animal rights activist. She started People For the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) in 1980 with Alex Pacheco. It is the world's biggest animal rights organization. In 2007 HBO showed a documentary called "I Am an Animal: The Story of Ingrid Newkirk and PETA".
In 2010 Jezebel called Newkirk 'The Worst Person in the World'.


Body armour

Modern body armour (personal armour/armor or body armor) is protective clothing. It is designed to absorb and/or deflect slashing, bludgeoning, and penetrating attacks.

It was first used to protect soldiers, today it is used to protect riot police, private security guards and bodyguards. There are two different types of armour. There is regular non-plated personal armor used by most police, security guards and bodyguards. There is also hard-plate reinforced personal armor, which is used by combat soldiers, police tactical units and hostage rescue teams.

Armour is certainly very ancient, but it was little used in infantry warfare for quite a long time, with the exception of helmets. From about the 18th century to the Vietnam war, men fought relatively unprotected. The weight and cost of effective armour meant it was no longer practical to have infantrymen armoured.

The invention of carbon fibre, modern hard ceramics and various plastic compounds are suitable for light armour which is effective in many circumstances. Kevlar, Technora and Nomex are Aramids, which are long-chain aromatic polyamides. They are used to make bullet resistant vests and bullet resistant face masks. The PASGT helmet and vest used by United States military forces since the early 1980s both have Kevlar as a main component, as do their replacements. Most of these items have padding on the inside to act as shock-absorbers, and to increase comfort during while being worn.

So, with the lighter weight and increased stopping-power of personal armour, the modern soldier is once again protected against most of the weapons of the day.

In December 2009, during the War in Afghanistan, a British soldier in southern Helmand Province, survived a shot to the back during an operation to clear insurgents from a village, protected by the body armor kit he was wearing.

Warsaw Uprising

In 1944, the Polish resistance Home Army rebelled against Nazi occupation of Warsaw. This rebellion is known as the Warsaw Uprising. The resistance Home Army wanted to free Warsaw from Nazi Germany. The resistance army fought against German troops for 63 days. After that, there was no chance of winning, so they surrendered. German troops killed many civilians in the city. After the uprising, the city of Warsaw was destroyed almost completely. At the time of the uprising, the Red Army was stationed on the other side of the river Vistula, which runs through the city of Warsaw. 

The Uprising was the largest attack done by any European resistance movement of World War II. The Slovak National Uprising, which happened from 29 August to 28 October 1944, is comparable.

At the same time as the attack, the Soviet Union's Red Army got close to the east of the city and the German forces retreated. However, the Soviets stopped moving forward. This allowed the Germans to destroy the city and defeat the Polish resistance.

The Warsaw uprising began on 1 August 1944. It was part of a big plan, Operation "Tempest". Operation Tempest started when the Soviet Army got near Warsaw. The goals of the Polish resistance were to push the German troops out of the city. They also wanted to free Warsaw before the Soviets arrived. This would help the Polish Underground State to take control of the city.

At the start of the battle, the Polish resistance got control over most of central Warsaw. By 14 September, Polish forces under Soviet command captured the east bank of the Vistula river. 

Winston Churchill asked Stalin and Franklin D. Roosevelt to help the Polish troops, but the Soviets would not help. Churchill sent over 200 drops of supplies by air. The US Army Air Force sent one drop of supplies by air.

About 16,000 members of the Polish resistance were killed and about 6,000 were badly wounded. In addition, between 150,000 and 200,000 Polish civilians were killed. The Germans also found many Jews the Poles were hiding. 

More than 8,000 German soldiers were killed or went missing, and 9,000 were wounded. During the fighting in the city about a quarter of Warsaw's buildings were destroyed. After the surrender of Polish forces, German troops destroyed 35% of the city.

By July 1944, Poland had been occupied by Nazi German troops for almost five years. The Polish Home Army was loyal to the Polish government in London. It had planned to attack the Germans. Germany was fighting a group of Allied powers, led by the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States.

At the start, the plan of the Home Army was to join with the invading forces of the Western Allies as they freed Europe from the Nazis. In 1943, the Soviets were about to reach the pre-war borders of Poland before the Allied invasion of Europe got very far.

The Soviets and the Poles were both enemies of Nazi Germany. But they had different goals. The Home Army wanted a democratic capitalist Poland that was allied with the West. The Soviet leader Stalin wanted to make Poland a communist country that was allied to the Soviet Union.

The Soviets and the Poles did not trust each other. Soviet partisans in Poland often disagreed with Polish resistance troops that were allied to the Home Army.

Stalin stopped all Polish-Soviet relations on 25 April 1943 after the Germans told the world about the Katyn massacre of Polish army officers. Stalin refused to admit that he ordered the killings.

The Home Army commander, Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski made a plan on 20 November, called Operation "Tempest". On the Eastern Front, local units of the Home Army were to attack the German "Wehrmacht" and help Soviet troops.

On 13 July 1944 as the Soviet attack crossed the old Polish border, the Poles had to make a decision. They could either start to attack the Germans, which might not be supported by the Soviets, or do no attacks and be criticized by the Soviets.

The Poles were worried that if Poland was freed from German occupation by the Red Army, then the Allies would not accept the Polish government in London after the war.

When the Poles saw the actions of the Soviet forces, they realized they needed to make a decision. In Operation "Ostra Brama", NKVD forces shot or arrested Polish officers and forced lower ranks to join the Soviet-controlled Polish forces.

On 21 July, the Home Army decided to launch Operation "Tempest" in Warsaw soon. The plan was intended as a way of showing Poland was its own country and as an attack against the German occupiers. On 25 July, the Polish government-in-exile (against the views of Polish Commander-in-Chief General Kazimierz Sosnkowski) approved the plan for an uprising in Warsaw.

In the early summer of 1944, German plans required Warsaw to be the defensive centre of the area. The Germans wanted to hold on to Warsaw no matter how many losses they had. The Germans had built fortifications and sent many new troops to the area. This slowed after the failed '20 July plot' to kill Adolf Hitler. The German troops in Warsaw were weak and did not feel confident.

However, by the end of July, German forces in the area had new troops sent to them. On 27 July, the Governor of the Warsaw District, Ludwig Fischer, called for 100,000 Polish men and women to build fortifications around the city. The inhabitants of Warsaw did not follow his demand.

The Home Army became worried about possible revenge actions by the Germans or mass arrests, which would make it hard for the Poles to start an attack. The Soviet forces were approaching Warsaw, and Soviet-controlled radio stations called for the Polish people to attack the Germans.

On 25 July, the Union of Polish Patriots made a radio broadcast from Moscow. It told Poles to attack the Germans. On 29 July, the first Soviet tanks reached the edges of Warsaw. They were counter-attacked by two German Panzer Corps: the 39th and 4th SS. On 29 July 1944 Radio Station Kosciuszko located in Moscow told Poles to "Fight The Germans!".

Bór-Komorowski and several senior officers held a meeting on that day. Jan Nowak-Jeziorański, who had arrived from London, said support from the Allies would be weak. On 31 July, the Polish commanders General Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski and Colonel Antoni Chruściel ordered the Home Army forces to be ready by 17:00 the following day.

During the uprising, Heinrich Himmler had given the order to storm Wola, a part of Warsaw. The rebels were holding this quarter. Himmler ordered that all people in Wazaw, who were not German, must be killed. This order was applicable to both civilians, and fighters, and also did not take into account if the people supported the uprising. With this order, Himmler wanted to break down the resistance of the Polish people against the German occupation. As a result, there were mass killings of people, mostly between August 5 and August 7. Estimates are that between 20,000 and 30,000 civilians were killed. in these three days. According to sources, about 20 German soldiers were killed, about 40 were wounded. Until August 12, about 50,000 Polish civilians lost their lives in Wola. 

Martin Bashir

Martin Bashir (born 19 January 1963) is a British journalist. He is known for interviewing Princess Diana in 1995 and Michael Jackson in the 2003 documentary Living with Michael Jackson. That year he was voted the fifth 'worst Briton'. He started being a journalist in 1986. He worked with BBC until 1999. Then he joined ITV. In December 2010 he joined MSNBC. He hosted "Martin Bashir" on MSNBC on weekdays.

On 15 November 2013, Bashir made people angry when he said on his MSNBC show "Clear the Air" that someone should defecate in Sarah Palin's mouth and called her a 'world-class idiot'. In December 2013 Bashir stopped working at the MSNBC.

Bashir was born to Pakistani parents in Wandsworth in South London. He speaks English and Urdu.

Chaff (countermeasure)

In the military, chaff are small thin pieces of metal which are shot out of an airplane or warship. These thin strips of metal make it harder for enemy radar to detect where the plane or ship is. The thin strips of metal also make it harder for radar-guided missiles to hit the plane or warship. The chaff tricks the enemy and helps to keep the plane or warship safe. Chaff was invented during World War II.

Flare (countermeasure)

In the military, a flare countermeasure is a very hot, burning object which is shot out from a warplane or helicopter. Warplanes and helicopters shoot out flares if the enemy has fired a heat-seeking missile at them. The flare may trick the missile into hitting into the hot, burning flare. This helps to protect warplanes and helicopters from enemy missiles. If a warplane or helicopter has had a radar-guided missile fired at them, they may shoot out chaff. Chaff is thin strips or fibres of metal which make if hard for the enemy missile to target the plane or helicopter.

Terry stop

In the United States, a Terry stop is a when police stop a person and quickly check the person's clothes for guns or knives. To do this action, the police officer has to have a good reason to think that the person may be involved in a crime.

Traffic calming

Traffic calming measures are changes to a road to make car drivers slow down and to make the road safer for people who have to walk across the road. Some traffic calming techniques include installing speed bumps and narrowing roads, which make drivers slow down. Another way to make drivers slow down is to set speed limits. These speed limits can be enforced with automatic speed cameras. These cameras take photographs of people who are driving too fast. Another way to slow drivers down is to make curbs wider.

Earl (mixtape)

Earl is the debut mixtape by Earl Sweatshirt. It was released on March 31, 2010 as a free digital download on Odd Future's website. The mixtape was recorded when Earl was between 15 and 16. The album is short and the lyrics are about murder, rape, drugs and criticism of religion.

John Abbott

Sir John Joseph Caldwell Abbott (March 12, 1821 – October 30, 1893) was the third Prime Minister of Canada. He served in the office for seventeen months, from June 16, 1891 to November 24, 1892. Through his daughter, Abbott is the great-grandfather of Canadian Academy Award-winning actor Christopher Plummer.

Abbott died on March 12, 1893 from complications of pneumonia in his Montreal, Quebec home. He was 72 years old.


Bike rage

Bike rage refers to using bad words, bad gestures, or physcial conflict between cyclists and others on the road, including pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists, and drivers. Bike rage is similar to other road rage.

A bike rage event can start because a cyclist, driver, or pedestrian thinks that another road user was breaking traffic rules, or in other ways because someone felt that their safety was threatened by another road user. Some people consider that the problem is city planners have mixed bikes and cars together in the same ways and may cause lots of chances for conflict. As such, cyclists feel threatened in traffic and hard done by and under attack. 

An article in "Toronto Life" magazine argued that the source of the problem bike rage is neither the problem of drivers nor the problem of cyclists, but the environment in which they interact. A possible explanation between cyclists and drivers is the anonymity of the big city; all the cyclists and drivers know they will never meet each other again.

Drivers attacking cyclists

An event from New York Times show that a 41-year-old cyclist, Dan Cooley was injured by a driver who became angry at him after an exchange of insults. The event began when the driver overtake in front of Mr. Cooley. As Mr. Cooley moved off the road, the driver drove the car to him, and used car to hurted him. Mr. Cooley fell on the ground and then the driver got out of the car and attacked him. Mr. Cooley got concussion and a torn ligament when he was taken to hospital. Mr. Cooley said that the reason for anger between cyclists and drivers is the car had monopolized the road for long time, however, bicyclists become more and more popular to save gas in this time. No one knows how to share the road.

Cyclists attacking drivers

In 2004 Chicago had an event that a cyclist attacked a driver. A Pennsylvania bicyclist shot a truck driver after an altercation. The truck driver, William Nicoletti, 51, when he drove past the cyclist, the man on the bike made obscene gesture to him. Not only for this, but also he drew a pistol and shot Mr. Nicoletti. The man on the bicycle, Robert Urick, 41, was "charged with attempted homicide, aggravated assault and weapons offenses."

In Toronto in January 2006, a driver threw his lunch out the window of his car. A 26-year-old bike courier threw the food back into the car. The driver tossed two cups of hot coffee at the courier. Then the driver attacked the woman and her bike.

A cyclist named Jefferey Guffey from Indiana told a driver to slow down. The driver attacked Guffey and bit part of his ear off. Police charged the driver with an offence.

In Toronto in 2007, a cyclist got angry at a driver. The cyclist then stabbed the driver in the face and neck with a screwdriver.

Trevor McDonald

Sir Trevor McDonald OBE (born George McDonald on 16 August 1939) is a British journalist. He was ITN's first black journalist.

Sir Trevor McDonald was born on 16 August 1939 in San Fernando, Trinidad and Tobago. In 1969, he was employed by the BBC Radio as a producer aged 30, based in London but still broadcasting to the Caribbean.

In 1973, he joined the ITV News Corporation, initially as a general reporter, later as a sports correspondent before concentrating in international politics. In the 1980s, he presented the ITN-produced Channel 4 News before returning back to ITV News in 1989 for the early evening news.

In 1992, McDonald became the presenter of the ITV News at Ten. In 1999 the programme ended. 
In 1999 "Tonight with Trevor McDonald" started on ITV. In 2007 McDonald stopped presenting the programme. It is now simply called "Tonight".

McDonald made occasional guest appearances in the 1970s children's comedy show Tiswas with Lenny Henry next to him during a performance of McDoughnut.

In September 2020, McDonald split from his wife Josephine after 34 years. 


Jeremy Kyle

Jeremy Kyle (born 7 July 1996) is an English television presenter. He is best known currently for presenting TalkTV and also formerly presented British talk show "The Jeremy Kyle Show" from 2005 to 2019. He also hosted the American version until May 2013.

He was born in Reading, Berkshire. He went to the Reading Blue Coat School. He married Carla Germaine in 2003.

In late 2007 Kyle started a radio show called "The Jeremy Vile Show".

In 2009 his first book, "I'm Only Being Honest", was published. In it he talks about 'Broken Britain'.

On 11 October 2011 a game show called "High Stakes" started on ITV. Kyle presented the show until it ended 13 December 2011.

In Blackpool's Madame Tussauds there is a wax figure of Kyle.


Vandal-resistant switch

Vandal-resistant switches (sometimes referred to as vandal-proof switches or tamper-proof switches) are electrical switches that are designed to be so strong that people cannot break them. To make switches strong, they are often made out of stainless steel or other durable metals. Buttons are often made so that they do not come very far out. This makes it harder for vandals to pry them out with a screwdriver. Examples of vandal-resistant switches include the buttons that you press to cross the street, the buttons on bank machines, and the buttons on public telephones.

Zine

A zine (a short way of referring to a fanzine) is a photocopied newspaper or magazine about music, politics, or another issue. Zines are usually photocopied by hand, and made by amateurs who do not have training in journalism. Only a small number of copies of a zine are usually made. Zines are often sold at record stores. A music zine might include reviews of line music shows, interviews with bands, and advertisements for CDs. Zines were an important part of the punk rock and hardcore punk subcultures.

Shed

A shed is a simple, single-storey structure in a garden which is used for storage. Some people use their shed to do hobbies or as a workshop. There are many types of sheds. Some sheds are small open-sided structures with tin rooves. Some sheds are large structures framed by wood. Some sheds are made out of plastic. Sheds used on farms can be large and tall structures. Sheds can be made with metal panels attached to a metal frame, plastic or vinyl panels attached to a frame, ill-timed construction.

Water politics

Water politics are the politics related to whether people have enough fresh drinking water (see water scarcity). There is less fresh water available for many reasons. One reason is that some industries use huge amounts of water. Another problem is water pollution, which occurs when dangerous chemicals or human waste gets into the water. Currently, 40% of the people in the world do not have enough fresh water. More than 2.2 million people died in 2000 from diseases that were caused by drinking polluted, dirty water or drought.

M-60 machine gun

The M60 is a type of American-made machine gun. The M60 fires 7.62mm NATO cartridges. The cartridges are fed into the gun using a belt. The United States Army started to use the M60 in 1957. It has been used by all the branches of the U.S. military. The United States Army used the M60 during the Vietnam War, Gulf War, Afghanistan War and the Iraq War. Recently, the U.S. military has started to replace the M60 with the M240 machine gun.

Lauren Laverne

Lauren Cecilia Fisher (born 28 April 1978), known as Lauren Laverne, is an English television presenter.

When she was at college she started a rock band called Kenickie with her brother Peter, Marie Nixon and Emma Jackson. The band broke up in 1998. In 2000 she sang on the single "Don't Falter" by Mint Royale. It reached No.15 in the UK Singles Chart.

In 2010 her first novel was "Candypop – Candy and the Broken Biscuits" was published by HarperCollins. From 2010-2013 Laverne presented 10 O'Clock Live.

She writes a style column for The Guardian.

M240 machine gun

The M240 machine gun is a type of machine gun. It fires the 7.62mm NATO cartridge. It is gas-operated and the bullets are fed into the chamber by a belt. The M240 has been used by the United States Armed Forces since the late-1970s. It is used a lot by infantry. The M240 is also mounted onto ground vehicles, boats, and helicopters.

Kamala Khan

Kamala Khan is a fictional character appearing in comic books published by Marvel Comics. She first appeared in "Captain Marvel" #17 (November 2013). Khan is a 16-year-old Pakistani-American Muslim. She is from the suburbs of New Jersey. As the fourth and current incarnation of "Ms. Marvel", she can shapeshift. She was made by Sana Amanat, Steve Wacker, and G. Willow Wilson.

The character has appeared in action figures, television series, and video games. In live-action, she is played by actress Iman Vellani in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) miniseries "Ms. Marvel" (2022) and in the 2023 movie "The Marvels".

Clonewheel organ

A clonewheel organ is an electronic musical instrument that copies the sound of the Hammond organ. The first group of clonewheel organs designed used synthesizer sounds. In the 1990s and 2000s, clonewheel organs began using sampling or digital techniques.

Robert Peston

Robert James Kenneth Peston (born 25 April 1960) is a British journalist. In 2005 his biography of Gordon Brown, "Brown's Britain" was published. In 2013, "How Do We Fix This Mess?: The Economic Price of Having it All, and the Route to Lasting Prosperity" was published. On 17 October 2013 he was made the Economics Editor for BBC News.

Joseph Paul Franklin

Joseph Paul Franklin (April 13, 1950 – November 20, 2013) was an American serial killer. He tried to kill Larry Flynt, a magazine publisher, in 1978 and Vernon Jordan, Jr., the civil rights activist, in 1980. He has been given six life sentences. He lived at Potosi Correctional Center on death row. On November 20, 2013 he was executed at 8:30am with Propofol, a lethal drug, for killing a Jewish man outside a synagogue.

He was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. Franklin said that he thought he deserved to die for his crimes. Larry Flynt wrote in an essay published in the Hollywood Reporter, “I do not want to see him die.” Franklin was executed on November 20, 2013 by lethal injection.

Canistota, South Dakota

Canistota is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 631 people lived there at the 2020 census. Canistota became a city in 1883.


Bridgewater, South Dakota

Bridgewater is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 511 people lived there at the 2020 census. Bridgewater became a city in 1889.


Garretson, South Dakota

Garretson is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,228 people lived there at the 2020 census. Garretson became a city in 1891. A popular place in the city is Devil's Gulch, the place where Jesse James jumped over a wide cliff on his horse and got away from the police after trying to rob a bank in Northfield, Minnesota, in 1876. Garretson gets its name from a banker named A.S. Garretson.


Survivor Series (2007)

Survivor Series (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 18, 2007 at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida. It was the twenty first Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


Iyengar Yoga

Iyengar Yoga is a type of yoga named after and developed by B. K. S. Iyengar (1918-2014). It is a form of Hatha Yoga. It emphasizes detail, precision and alignment. It focuses performing postures (poses) and breath control. This type of yoga helps to develop strength, mobility and stability. 

B. K. S. Iyengar has created over 200 yoga poses. Students start with simple poses and move on to more complex ones.

Iyengar Yoga often uses belts, blocks, and blankets to help people get into the postures. By using belts, blocks and blankets, people are less likely to hurt themselves.

Chinatown (1974 movie)

Chinatown is a 1974 American movie directed by Roman Polanski, written by Robert Towne, and starring Jack Nicholson, Faye Dunaway, John Hillerman and John Huston. The movie is based on a true story about arguments that people had over the water politics in 1937 Los Angeles. It is considered to be a film noir. It was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Film Registry in 1991. The movie is often considered to be one of the greatest movies ever made. During the 1975 Academy Awards, an Oscar award was given to Robert Towne for Best Original Screenplay. The Golden Globe Awards gave the movie awards for Best Drama, Best Director, Best Actor, and Best Screenplay. The American Film Institute says that it is the second-best of all mystery movies.

All Souls College, Oxford

All Souls College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1438 by Henry VI and the Archbishop of Canterbury Henry Chichele. The full name of the college is "The Warden and the College of the Souls of all Faithful People deceased in the University of Oxford".

All Souls does not have any undergraduate students. It only has graduate students.

All Souls is one of the richest colleges at Oxford.

Applied behavior analysis

Applied behavior analysis (ABA) is a way to help organisms change their behavior, and to identify the environmental contingencies that result in this behavior change. It is based on the scientific approach known as radical behaviorism, which views covert events as behavior that are to be subjected to the same conditions as overt behavior. ABA can be used as a treatment for animals, mental disorders, and developmental disabilities, and is based on the principles of behavior that were discovered using experiments.

Scientific experiments and articles about ABA are published in the "Journal for Applied Behavior Analysis" (JABA.) This journal was founded in 1968. In the first issue of JABA, three people wrote an article explaining what Applied behavior analysis is.

Psychologists who study the way the environment influences behavior are called behaviorists. They study the external causes of behavior instead of a person's feelings. A person's feelings are internal so behaviorists think they cannot be studied scientifically.

Psychologist John B. Watson founded Behaviorism in 1913 and he is regarded as one of the first psychologists to study the applied science of behavior. He thought that internal feelings should not be studied at all. He also thought that behavior is shaped by the environment over time due to the outcome of a person's actions. He believed all behavior is learned and can be changed. If a person gets something good as a result of doing a behavior they are more likely to repeat that behavior. If something bad happens as a result of a behavior a person is less likely to do that thing again. This is an idea that is used a lot in ABA.

One of the most famous behaviorists was the psychologist B.F. Skinner. Skinner first published his ideas about behaviorism in 1938. He wrote a lot about behaviorism throughout his career. He made some of the behavior principles that ABA uses.

ABA emerged when experimental behavior principles were applied to social behavior. There are various people that began the process of applying these principles to social behavior. One of the most famous was Ole Ivar Lovaas. In the 1960s, Lovaas became one of the first people to use applied behavior analysis as a treatment for autism. When Lovaas began using ABA to treat children with autism he changed the way developmental disorders were treated. Lovaas also thought that treatments would be more successful if they are started early in a child's life. The idea of starting treatment with a child as soon as possible is called 'early intervention'. Early intervention is still thought to be very important in ABA.

One of the more recent developments in Applied Behavior Analysis is the founding of the Behavior Analysis Certification Board (BACB). The BACB is a non-profit corporation that was started in 1998. The BACB certifies behavior analysts. In order to become a behavior analyst a person must go to a special school and then pass an exam. Once they pass this exam they will be board certified behavior analysts. The BACB sets standards to make sure board certified behavior analysts (BCBAs) are good at their jobs. The BACB makes sure that the BCBAs are using ethical, legal, and professional practices when they work.

There are seven characteristics of ABA A treatment that is based on ABA must have all of these things.


The following terms and ideas are used in Applied Behavior Analysis. It is important to understand these ideas when using ABA based interventions.

In ABA, a behavior that is bad is called a problem behavior. Problem behavior is something that hurts the person doing it or hurts other people around them. A problem behavior makes it harder for a person to learn new things.


Positive reinforcement (SR+) is when the "addition" of a stimulus leads to an increase in responding. There are four different types of positive reinforcement:


Negative reinforcement (SR-) happens when the "removal" of a stimulus increases the likelihood a person will do a behavior in the future. In this case the term negative does not mean bad. The stimulus that is removed from the environment is something aversive. This means that the person does not like it. People will want to do a behavior if they know that something they do not like will be taken away.

Reinforcements are given based on schedules of reinforcement. The schedule will explain the ways reinforcement is earned. Behavior analysts decide which reinforcement schedule is best. Different schedules are useful for different things. The schedule used depends on the person. It also depends on the behavior that is being reinforced.

Continuous reinforcement schedules (CRF) reinforce a person every time they do the target behavior. There are a few problems with CRF schedules though. The rates of behavior are not long-lasting. If the person stops being reinforced they may stop doing the target behavior. Another issue is satiation. If the person becomes satiated it means that they do not want the reinforcer anymore.

These schedules of reinforcement only reinforce the target behavior sometimes. The four most common types of intermittent schedules are:


A discriminative stimulus (SD) is something that tells a person that reinforcement is available. The presentation of a SD should cause a response. Differential reinforcement teaches a person the difference between a SD and a non-discriminative stimulus (S-delta). A SD signals that reinforcement is available. A S-delta does not tell the person anything about the availability of reinforcement. A S-delta is not likely to produce responses because reinforcement is not given.

It is also used to decrease problem behavior. There are four types of differential reinforcement that can be used to decrease a problem behavior.


Extinction is a way to decrease rates of problem behavior. A DRA program should be used at the same time as an extinction program. This will make the extinction program more effective.

Reinforcement is always the first thing that is tried when trying to change a behavior. Reinforcement produces long-lasting results and is better for the person. However reinforcement does not always reduce problem behavior. If reinforcement does not work it may be necessary to try punishment. Punishment is effective but it can have bad consequences. It can cause emotional harm if it is not used correctly.

Punishment is any response to a behavior that "decreases" the likelihood of a behavior happening in the future. Punishment of a problem behavior should be used with reinforcement of the appropriate behavior. Appropriate behavior should always be reinforced even when using punishment for problem behavior. Just like reinforcement, punishment can be both positive and negative. Positive punishment is the "addition" of an stimulus that decreases the chances of future responses. This stimulus that is added is something aversive. Negative punishment is the "removal" of a stimulus that decreases the chance of future behaviors happening. The stimulus that is removed is something that the person likes.

Prompting increases the likelihood that a behavior will be done the right way. Using prompts will make the learning process easier and quicker. Someone that is teaching a new behavior can use prompts to help the person that is learning the behavior. The two broad categories of prompts are stimulus and response.

Examples of stimulus prompts would be: lists or pictures that help the learner remember what the correct response is.

Response prompts do not involve a change in the antecedent. There are three types of response prompts.


Fading prompts is a way to increase the independence of the learner. Once the learner can do the behavior on their own they will not need the help of the teacher. However, if a teacher stops using prompts quickly it may confuse the learner. So prompts should be decreased slowly. The process of gradually decreasing prompting is called 'fading'.

Shaping is a way to teach new behaviors or improve behaviors that have already been taught. It involves reinforcing steps towards a target behavior.

Complex behaviors are made up of smaller simple behaviors. This is what the concept of behavior chains is based on. A behavior chain is when smaller behaviors are combined to form a complex behavior. These smaller behaviors are done in a certain order. Each of the smaller behaviors is a step in the behavior chain. Each step in a behavior chain is a response on its own. There are three different ways to teach a behavior chain:


ABA relies on data to make decisions about behavior. Behavior analysts are always collecting data about a person's behavior.

Direct observation is when behavior is watched and recorded. Indirect measures compare one person's behavior to other people's behavior. An example would be an intelligence test. One person's score is compared to the scores that other people got.

There are three common methods of data collection. They are frequency, interval, and time sampling. These methods are used for direct observation.


A functional analysis is done to find the reason for problem behavior. The reason for problem behavior must be known before a behavioral intervention can be done. Behavior analysts came up with the idea of a functional analysis in 1982. Since then it has become an important part of ABA. The behavior analyst is tries to find the situations that cause the highest rates of problem behavior. The situations that cause the highest rates of problem behavior tell the behavior analyst the reason for the behavior. Once the reasons for problem behavior are known treatment can begin.

Treatments based on the results of a FA are more effective than without a FA.

Applied behavior analysis is commonly associated with autism. This is because ABA is the only treatment for autism that has been scientifically proven to be effective.

Queen Elizabeth Islands

The Queen Elizabeth Islands are a group of islands in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. They are split between Nunavut and Northwest Territories. 

In the past the islands were called Parry Archipelago or Parry Islands. They were named after British Arctic explorer Sir William Parry. In 1953 the islands were renamed after Elizabeth II.

According to the "Atlas of Canada" there are 34 large and 2,092 small islands in the archipelago. Many of the islands are among the largest in the world. The largest island in the archipelago is Ellesmere Island.

Less than 400 people live on the Queen Elizabeth Islands.

Cristobal Tapia de Veer

Juan Cristobal Tapia de Veer also known as "Cristo", is a film and television score composer, arranger, producer and multi-instrumentalist based in Montreal, QC, Canada. He is mostly known for his music to the British 6-part drama UTOPIA for which he won an RTS Craft Award in the best original score category in 2013.

Cristo was born during the military coup d'état in Chile. First, his parents fled to Paris, France. While his father decided to stay there, his mother took him back to Chile. Life under Pinochet's dictatorship still proved impossible, so they found political refuge in Québec, Canada.

He obtained a master's degree in Classical Music (specialization in percussion) from the Conservatoire de musique du Québec. In 2001 he got signed to Warner Music with his pop-band "One Ton", putting a hold on his classical career. The trio won the Canadian Dance Music Award (SOCAN) in 2003 with the electro-dance single "Supersex World". It was Cristo who produced the album.

In 2011, his music for the Victorian 4-part drama "The Crimson Petal and the White" (dir: Marc Munden, BBC2) totally surprised the audiences.

Matthew Gilbert, The Boston Globe, U.S.:

"The soundtrack ranges from gnawing electronic hums to choral ecstasy. It's all brilliantly, effectively, appropriately jarring, even if it sends the Masterpiece crowd to the medicine cabinet for Dramamine."

His latest work is in the conspiracy thriller "UTOPIA" created by Dennis Kelly, that aired on Channel 4. A second series has already been commissioned.

The Royal Television Society awarded him a Craft & Design Awards for "best original music" in November 2013.

He wrote music for a new TV-show called "Série Noire", written and directed by the writers of "Les Invincibles", released in January 2014 on Radio-Canada.


Canova, South Dakota

Canova is a town in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Miner County, and 89 people lived there at the 2020 census. Canova became a town in 1898.

Monroe, South Dakota

Monroe is a town in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 159 people lived there at the 2020 census. Monroe became a town in 1901.

Eruption (band)

Eruption was a popular disco, R&B and soul band in the 1970s and 1980s. It was created by German producer Frank Farian.



Survivor Series (2006)

Survivor Series (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 26, 2006 at the Wachovia Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was the twentieth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


One Way Ticket

"One Way Ticket" is song which was recorded by Eruption. 

The song was reached #1 on Austria and Switzerland music charts. 

This song is a cover version of song "One Way Ticket (To The Blues)" by Neil Sedaka.

Elitserien (bandy)

Elitserien () is the men's bandy top division of Sweden since the 2007–2008 season. It consist of 14 teams, and is followed up by the Swedish championships playoffs, ending with one single final game.

The season starts with a regular season comprising 14 teams and 26 rounds. The first eight teams qualify for the quarter finals, the eleventh and twelfth plays a relegation round robin tournament against teams from the Allsvenskan and the last two teams are relegated.


Allsvenskan (bandy)

Allsvenskan () is since the 2007–2008 the second highest division of men's bandy in Sweden. It is made up of 24 teams in two regional groups.


Allsvenskan (disambiguation)

Allsvenskan is the highest league of Swedish association football for men.

Allsvenskan ("the all Swedish") is also the name of several Swedish sport leagues:


European Cup (bandy)

The European Cup is an annual bandy club competition between teams from Europe. The first edition of the tournament was held in 1974.


Sweden women's national football team

Sweden women's national football team () represents Sweden on the women's side in association football. Sweden won the 1984 UEFA European Championship. In the FIFA World Cup, the team ended up second in 2003, and won the bronze medals in 1991 and 2011.


Homeless shelter

A homeless shelter is a place for homeless people to take refuge. Shelters provide safety and protection from exposure to the weather. These shelters also provide food, warmth, and the basic needs for any person.

Determinant

The determinant of a square matrix is a scalar (a number) that indicates how that matrix behaves. It can be calculated from the numbers in the matrix.

The determinant of the matrix formula_1 is written as formula_2 or formula_3 in a formula. Sometimes, instead of formula_4 and formula_5, one simply writes formula_6 and formula_7.

There are a few ways to understand what the determinant says about a matrix.

An formula_8 matrix can be seen as describing a linear map in formula_9 dimensions. In which case, the determinant indicates the factor by which this matrix scales (grows or shrinks) a region of formula_9-dimensional space.For example, a formula_11 matrix formula_1, seen as a linear map, will turn a square in 2-dimensional space into a parallelogram. That parallellogram's area will be formula_2 times as big as the square's area.In the same way, a formula_14 matrix formula_15, seen as a linear map, will turn a cube in 3-dimensional space into a parallelepiped. That parallelepiped's volume will be formula_16 times as big as the cube's volume.

The determinant can be negative or zero. A linear map can stretch and scale a volume, but it can also reflect it over an axis. Whenever this happens, the sign of the determinant changes from positive to negative, or from negative to positive. A negative determinant means that the volume was mirrored over an odd number of axes.

One can think of a matrix as describing a system of linear equations. That system has a unique non-trivial solution "exactly" when the determinant is not 0 ("non-trivial" meaning that the solution is not just all zeros).

If the determinant is zero, then there is either no unique non-trivial solution, or there are infinitely many.

A matrix has an inverse matrix exactly when the determinant is not 0. For this reason, a matrix with a non-zero determinant is called invertible. If the determinant is 0, then the matrix is called non-invertible or singular.

Geometrically, one can think of a singular matrix as "flattening" the parallelepiped into a parallelogram, or a parallelogram into a line. Then the volume or area is 0, which means that there is no linear map that will bring the old shape back.

There are a few ways to calculate a determinant.



For larger matrices, the determinant is harder to calculate. One way to do it is called cofactor expansion.

Suppose that we have an formula_8 matrix formula_1. First, we choose any row or column of the matrix. For each number formula_24 in that row or column, we calculate something called its cofactor formula_25. Then formula_26.

To compute such a cofactor formula_25, we erase row formula_28 and column formula_29 from the matrix formula_1. This gives us a smaller formula_31 matrix. We call it formula_32. The cofactor formula_25 then equals formula_34.

Here is an example of a cofactor expansion of the left column of a formula_14 matrix:

formula_36

As illustrated above, one can simplify the computation of determinant by choosing a row or column that has many zeros; if formula_24 is 0, then one can skip calculating formula_25 altogether.


Philip the Arab

Philip the Arab ( 204 – September 249) was Roman emperor from 244 to 249 AD.

Philip () was born in around 204. He got the name "Philip the Arab" ( or ). (The "Chronicon Paschale", a Greek chronicle, and the Latin historian Aurelius Victor each have different dates for Philip's birth.) He was the son of Julius Marinus. Philip was probably born in the city he later named Philippopolis, in the Roman province of Arabia Petraea (now the city of Shahba, Syria).

Philip became emperor at the start of 244. (The "Justinianic Code"'s writing means that Philip became emperor after 13 January 244 and before 14 March the same year.) Philip's wife, Marcia Otacilia Severa, became "augusta" (empress) early in 244. After Philip became emperor, the Romans and the Sasanian Empire made peace. With this success, Philip got the name (or ) in the middle of 244. Philip came to Rome in 244, probably in early summer.

In 245, Philip was Roman consul for the first time. That year, the Romans went to war with the Carpi. On 12 November 245, Philip was at Aquae in Dacia (Vidonac, Serbia). Wars against the Carpi and Germanic peoples continued into 247. In 247, Philip was Roman consul for the second time. In late summer 247, Philip held a triumph in Rome. For his military success against the Carpi, Philip probably got the name at the end of 247.

In 248, Philip was Roman consul for the third time. In April 248, Philip held a festival for the one thousandth anniversary of Rome, a thousand years since Romulus became the first king of Rome. (The chronicle of the Latin historian Cassiodorus says that this started on 21 April and ended on the 23 April 248.)

John Chrysostom wrote that unlike other pagan rulers of the Romans, Philip was tolerant to the Christians and let them practise their faith openly. Eusebius wrote Philip and his wife received letters from Origen.

Some time before 11 September 249, soldiers in the Roman army killed Philip in a battle against the army of Decius. The battle was probably near Verona on the Italian Peninsula. Philip, Philip II, and Marcia Otacilia Severa may all have had "damnatio memoriae" on them, and the Romans removed their names from some inscriptions.

The Latin historian Eutropius says that Philip and Philip II were both deified (made into gods). This is probably not true. Where Philip's grave was is unknown.

Philip married Marcia Otacilia Severa before 238. At the start of 244, Marcia Otacilia Severa became "augusta" (empress) and got the Latin title: . Marcia Otacilia Severa probably died in 248.

They had a son, Philip II. The Latin history "Epitome de Caesaribus" says that Philip II was born in 236 or 237. Only the Greek historian John of Antioch says Philip had other sons. Philip made his son Philip II his "caesar" (junior emperor) in July or August 244. After July or August 244, Marcia Otacilia Severa also had the title . In July or August 247, Philip made his son his "augustus" (co-emperor).

Philip's father, Julius Marinus, died while his son was emperor. After that, people in Philippopolis in Arabia (Philip's home town) worshipped Julius Marinus as a god. However, the Roman Senate probably did not deify Julius Marinus, and he probably did not become one of the official gods.

Philip had a brother, Gaius Julius Priscus. He was a governor of Roman Mesopotamia () and then a praetorian prefect and governor of the East ().

Loneliness

Loneliness is a sad emotion that a person can feel if they are isolated or feel a sense of lack of friends and family members. Loneliness can make people feel anxious.

People can feel lonely even if they are surrounded by a lot of other people. Loneliness can occur even to people in marriages, relationships, families and successful jobs. One cause of loneliness is a lack of friends during childhood and teenage years. Loneliness can also be caused by chronic depression. Loneliness can also be caused when a relationship or marriage ends. 

Moreover, in the scenarios where you are the only who understands the whole picture, the person might learn few techniques and read self-help guides that can help in coping up with loneliness. 

Loneliness is a theme in literature, going back to the Epic of Gilgamesh. 


Fuzz bass

Fuzz bass (also called "bass overdrive" or "bass distortion") is a style of playing the electric bass. When a person plays fuzz bass, the bass sounds buzzy and distorted. Fuzz bass is created by turning up the volume on a bass amplifier very high, or by using an electronic fuzz pedal. In the mid-1960s, some bass players began to play fuzz bass. The Beatles' 1965 song "Think for Yourself" (from Rubber Soul) has fuzz bass. The 1965 Rolling Stones song "Under My Thumb" has fuzz bass.

Redirect

Redirect may refer to:

Primulaceae

The Primulaceae are a family of herbaceous flowering plants. It has about 24 genera. It includes some garden plants and wildflowers. It is also called the primrose family.

SOCATA TBM

The SOCATA TB700 is a light transport aircraft. It is used by both civilian and military operators. It is built in Tarbes, France by SOCATA. It is a single-turboprop aircraft built in all-metal. More than 600 were sold. TBM-850 is a modern variant.

The Great Gatsby (2013 movie)

The Great Gatsby is a drama movie released in 2013. It is based on the novel "The Great Gatsby" by F. Scott Fitzgerald.

The movie was an Australian-American production. It was directed by Baz Luhrmann. The screenplay was written by Luhrmann and Craig Pearce.

The main actors in it are Leonardo DiCaprio, Tobey Maguire, Carey Mulligan, Joel Edgerton and Isla Fisher. This movie also has Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan in a cameo appearance.

Siege of Tobruk

The Siege of Tobruk was a battle in Libya during the North African Campaign of World War II. It lasted for 241 days. The battle was between Axis and Allied Forces. The battle started on 11 April 1941, when Tobruk was besieged by an Italian and Nazi German force commanded by Lieutenant General Erwin Rommel. The siege continued for 240 days up to 27 November 1941. On that date, the Allied 8th Army took control of Tobruk.

The reason that both sides wanted to control Tobruk is that it had a deep protected harbour. This made it a good place for ships to seek shelter. As well, the Italians had built fortifications. There were also escarpments and cliffs near Tobruk, which helped to protect the town from attack.

The Allies wanted to control Tobruk so that they could defend Egypt and the Suez Canal. When the Axis armies could no longer use the port at Tobruk, they had to bring in supplies at the distant port of Tripoli. This required the Axis armies to bring the supplies by truck through of desert. After the Allies won Tobruk, the Axis armies continuted fighting to take it back. The Axis armies fired many artillery shells at Tobruk and dropped many bombs on the town.

Tobruk

Tobruk is a port city on Libya's eastern Mediterranean coast. It is near the border with Egypt. It is the capital of the Butnan District. In 2011, it had a population of about 120,000. There was once an ancient Greek colony at Tobruk. Later, the Romans built a fortress there. By 1911, Tobruk had become an Italian military base. During World War II, in a battle called the Siege of Tobruk, Allied forces captured the town. After the war, Tobruk was rebuilt. During the 1960s, a port terminal was built at Tobruk.

Battle of Berlin (RAF campaign)

The Battle of Berlin was the British bombing raid on Berlin during the Second World War from November 1943 to March 1944. British bombers had new navigation aids to help them, such as the new H2S radar, and Bomber Command made 16 attacks on the city.

Although the bombings were mostly done by British bombers, Australian and Canadian bombers also flew to Germany.

The Battle of Berlin was considered a failure for the Royal Air Force (RAF). It lost 1,047 bombers, with 1,682 more damaged, and over 7,000 air crew members. Also, the bombings did not cause the Germans to give up but left 450,000 of them homeless.

Battle of Guam (1941)

The First Battle of Guam was a battle fought during the Pacific War in World War II. It took place on 8 December 1941 on Guam in the Mariana Islands. The battle was between Japan and the United States. The American forces on Guam were defeated by Japanese forces. The Japanese forces then occupied the island until the Second Battle of Guam in 1944.

Survivor Series (2005)

Survivor Series (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 27, 2005 at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the nineteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


Bohol (island)

Bohol is the tenth-largest island of the Philippines and the main island of the Bohol province. It is part of the Region VII (Central Visayas) in the Visayas island group.

The Philippine Tarsier, one of the smallest primate in the world, is one endemic animal of southern Philippines, including the island of Bohol.

The island of Bohol has an oval shape and is surrounded by 73 smaller islands; the larger of these small islands are Panglao, in the southwest in front of the city of Tagbilaran, and Lapining, in the northeast.

The main island of Bohol has an area of and a coastline of . It lies southeast from Cebu Island across the Cebu Strait (sometimes called Bohol Strait) and southwest from Leyte, separated by the Camotes Sea and Canigao Channel. Bohol is also located north of Mindanao with the Bohol Sea or Mindanao Sea between them.

The terrain of Bohol is basically hilly and about half the island is covered in limestone. The interior is a large plateau.

In the centre of the island, mainly in the municipalities of Sagbayan, Batuan and Carmen, are the Chocolate Hills, over 1,270 hills cone-shaped hills over an area of .

The main mountain range of the island is "Sierra Bullones" that is along the south coast. It begins near Loboc, goes to the east and then to the northeast to end near Candijay. The highest point of this range and in the entire province is Mount Mayana ().

There are four main rivers that flow through Bohol:

The climate of the island of Bohol is a warm tropical climate (Köppen climate classification "Af"); it is typically hot and wet throughout the year and rainfall is both heavy and frequent.



Congressional Record

The Congressional Record is the official record of the United States Congress. It is published by the United States Government Printing Office. It is issued when the United States Congress is in session. Indexes are printed about every two weeks. At the end of a session of Congress, the daily editions are assembled into bound volumes creating permanent editions. The Congressional Record is similar to Hansards, which report on the parliamentary debates in the UK's Westminster system of government.

Exclusionary zoning

Exclusionary zoning is the use of zoning laws to exclude certain types of people from a community. Exclusionary zoning laws began to be used in the United States in the late 19th century. Exclusionary zoning rules are still used today across the country. A common type of exclusionary zoning rule is a minimum lot size rule. This type of rule makes it hard for poor families to build a house on a small lot that they could afford. Exclusionary zoning rules make it hard for poor families to find housing in a community.

Battle of the Coral Sea

The Battle of the Coral Sea was a battle fought from May 4, 1942 to May 8, 1942. It was a major naval battle in the Pacific Ocean during World War II. The battle was between the Japanese Navy and Allied naval and air forces from the United States and Australia. The battle was the first battle between aircraft carriers. It was also the first naval battle in which the warships of neither side actually saw the warships of the other side. Instead, each side sent planes to attack the ships of the other side.

Japanese forces made a plan to invade and occupy Port Moresby in New Guinea and Tulagi in the Solomon Islands. When the U.S. discovered this plan, it sent two Navy aircraft carrier groups and a combined Australian–American cruiser force.

On 3–4 May, Japanese forces invaded and occupied Tulagi. The Japanese aircraft carriers entered the Coral Sea to try to destroy the Allied naval forces.

On 7 May, the carrier forces from the two sides sent planes to attack the ships of the other side. The first day, the U.S. sank the Japanese light carrier "Shōhō", while the Japanese sank a U.S. destroyer. The next day, the Japanese carrier "Shōkaku" was badly damaged, and the U.S. carriers "Lexington" and the "Yorktown" were damaged. Since both sides suffered heavy losses in aircraft and carriers, the two fleets stopped the battle.

The Japanese sank more ships than the U.S. However, the battle was considered a victory for the Allies because the Japanese forces were not able to capture the locations they were hoping to occupy. As well, the Japanese carriers "Shōkaku" and "Zuikaku" were not able to fight in the Battle of Midway, which helped the U.S. to win there. Japan's losses of carriers meant that they could not invade Port Moresby. Two months later, the Allies launched the Guadalcanal Campaign.

On 7 December 1941, using aircraft carriers, the Japanese attacked the U.S. Pacific fleet at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. The attack destroyed most of the U.S. Pacific Fleet's battleships. It also started a state of war between the two nations. The Japanese wanted to destroy American navy ships, capture land with natural resources, and obtain military bases to defend their empire.

At the same time that they were attacking Pearl Harbor, the Japanese attacked Malaya. This caused the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand to join the United States as Allies in the war against Japan (Australia had joined World War 2 in 1939 when Germany invaded Poland). The goals of the Japanese battles in the war were to remove British and Americans from the Netherlands Indies and the Philippines.
In the first few months of 1942, Japanese forces attacked and captured the Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, the Netherlands East Indies, Wake Island, New Britain, the Gilbert Islands, and Guam. They also destroyed a lot of Allied land, naval, and air forces. Japan planned to use these lands to defend its empire.

Shortly after the war began, Japan's Naval General Staff wanted to invade Northern Australia. The goal was to prevent Australia from being used as a base to threaten Japan's defenses in the South Pacific.

The Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) said it did not have the forces or ships to invade Australia. Vice Admiral Shigeyoshi Inoue, commander of the IJN's 4th Fleet (also called the South Seas Force) had the idea of capturing Tulagi in the southeastern Solomon Islands and Port Moresby in New Guinea.

This would put northern Australia within range of Japanese land-based aircraft. Japan decided to capture New Caledonia, Fiji, and Samoa. This would make it hard for the United States to supply Australia.

In April 1942, the army and navy developed a plan called Operation "MO". The plan was to invade Port Moresby by 10 May. The plan also included capturing Tulagi on 2–3 May. This would give the navy a base for attacks against Allied territories and forces in the South Pacific.

When "MO" was done, the navy planned to do Operation "RY". This was a plan to capture Nauru and Ocean Island for their phosphate deposits on 15 May.

Further attacks against Fiji, Samoa and New Caledonia were planned. There was a damaging air attack by Allied aircraft on Japanese naval forces invading the Lae-Salamaua area in New Guinea in March. Inoue requested carriers to provide airplanes. Inoue was worried about Allied bombers at air bases in Townsville and Cooktown, Australia.
Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, commander of Japan's Combined Fleet, was planning an attack for June. He wanted to try to destroy the U.S. Navy's carriers. None were damaged in the Pearl Harbor attack.

Unknown to the Japanese, the U.S. Navy had decoded Japanese secret codes. By March 1942, the U.S. was able to figure out up to 15% of the IJN's code. By the end of April the Americans were reading up to 85% of the messages in code.

In March 1942, the U.S. first noticed the "MO" operation in messages. On 13 April, the British decoded an IJN message telling Inoue that the Fifth Carrier Division, consisting of the fleet carriers and , was being sent. The British sent the message to the Americans. They also said that Port Moresby would probably be attacked in the "MO" plan.
Admiral Chester Nimitz, the new commander of Allied forces in the Pacific, and his staff thought the Japanese were planning an attack in early May on Port Moresby. The Allies saw Port Moresby as an important base for attacking the Japanese. Nimitz's staff also thought that the Japanese might attack Allied bases in Samoa and at Suva.

Nimitz sent all four of the Pacific fleet's aircraft carriers to the Coral Sea. By 27 April, Japanese messages helped the allies to know most targets of the "MO" and "RY" plans.

On 29 April, Nimitz sent his four carriers and their supporting warships towards the Coral Sea. Task Force 17 consisted of the carrier , three cruisers and four destroyers. It was supported by two oilers and two destroyers.

Task Force 11 consisted of the carrier with two cruisers. TF 16 included the carriers and the USS Hornet, but they were too far away.

Nimitz put Fletcher in command of Allied naval forces in the South Pacific area until Halsey arrived Halsey was told to command all three task forces once TF 16 arrived in the Coral Sea area (Lundstrom, "Pearl Harbor to Midway", p. 167).

The Japanese thought that all but one of the U.S. Navy's carriers were in the central Pacific. The Japanese did not know the location of the other carrier, but they did not expect an American carrier response to "MO" until the attacks had begun.

During late April, the Japanese submarines and searched the area where landings were planned. The submarines explored Rossel Island and the Deboyne Group area and the route to Port Moresby. They did not see any Allied ships and returned to Rabaul on 23 and 24 April.

The Japanese Port Moresby Invasion Force, commanded by Rear Admiral Kōsō Abe, included 11 transport ships carrying about 5,000 soldiers from the IJA's South Seas Detachment plus 500 more troops.

This included one light cruiser and six destroyers under the command of Rear Admiral Sadamichi Kajioka. Abe's ships departed Rabaul for the trip to Port Moresby on 4 May and were joined by Kajioka's force the next day. The ships, planned to arrive at Port Moresby by 10 May.

The Allied forces at Port Moresby had 5,333 men, but only half of these were infantry and all had poor equipment and little training.
Leading the invasion of Tulagi was the Tulagi Invasion Force. It was commanded by Rear Admiral Kiyohide Shima. It consisted of two minelayers, two destroyers, six minesweepers, two subchasers, and a transport ship carrying about 400 troops. Supporting the Tulagi force was the light carrier , four heavy cruisers, and one destroyer, commanded by Rear Admiral Aritomo Gotō.

There was a separate force commanded by Rear Admiral Kuninori Marumo. It consisted of two light cruisers, the seaplane tender , and three gunboats. Inoue directed "MO" from the cruiser . He arrived on 4 May.

Gotō's force left Truk on 28 April and stayed near New Georgia Island. Marumo's support group left New Ireland to establish a seaplane base on 2 May to support the Tulagi attack. Shima's invasion force left Rabaul on 30 April.

The Carrier Strike Force with carriers "Zuikaku" and "Shōkaku", two heavy cruisers, and six destroyers left from Truk on 1 May. The strike force was commanded by Vice Admiral Takeo Takagi (flag on cruiser ). Rear Admiral Chūichi Hara, on "Zuikaku", commanded the carrier air forces.

The Carrier Strike Force was to enter the Coral Sea south of Guadalcanal. Once in the Coral Sea, the carriers were to provide airplanes for the invasion forces, destroy Allied airplanes at Port Moresby, and destroy any Allied naval forces in the Coral Sea.

Takagi's carriers were to deliver nine Zero fighter aircraft to Rabaul. Bad weather during two attempts to make the delivery made the aircraft to return to the carriers. One of the Zeros crashed in the ocean.

To find out if any Allied naval forces were coming, the Japanese sent submarines to wait southwest of Guadalcanal. Fletcher's forces got into the Coral Sea area before the submarines arrived and the Japanese did not see them. Another sub was sent to explore around Nouméa. It was attacked by "Yorktown" aircraft on 2 May.
On the morning of 1 May, Fletcher sent TF11 to refuel. TF 17 completed refueling the next day. Fletcher took TF 17 northwest towards the Louisiades and ordered TF 11 to meet TF 44 on 4 May. TF 44 was a joint Australia–U.S. warship force under MacArthur's command. It was led by Australian Rear Admiral John Crace. It was made up of the cruisers , , and .

Early on 3 May, Shima's force arrived off Tulagi and the naval troops began to occupy the island. Tulagi was undefended. The small guard of Australian commandos and a Royal Australian Air Force group left before Shima's arrival. The Japanese forces built a seaplane and communications base.

At 17:00 on 3 May, Fletcher was told that the Japanese Tulagi invasion force had been seen. TF 17 went towards Guadalcanal to launch air attacks against the Japanese forces at Tulagi.

On 4 May, from a position south of Guadalcanal (), 60 aircraft from TF 17 launched three attacks against Shima's forces off Tulagi. "Yorktown"s aircraft sank the destroyer "Kikuzuki" () and three of the minesweepers, damaged four other ships, and destroyed four seaplanes. The Americans lost one dive bomber and two fighters. Even though the Japanese forces were harmed by the carrier strikes, they kept building the seaplane base. They began flying from Tulagi by 6 May.

Takagi's Carrier Striking Force was north of Tulagi when it learned of Fletcher's strike on 4 May. Takagi sent planes to search for the American carriers, but the planes found nothing.

At 08:16 on 5 May, TF 17 met up with TF 11 and TF 44 south of Guadalcanal. At the same time, four F4F Wildcat fighter aircraft from "Yorktown" shot down a Kawanishi Type 97 aircraft from the Yokohama Air Group.

A message from Pearl Harbor told Fletcher that Japanese planned to land their troops at Port Moresby on 10 May and their carriers would be close to the invasion group. Fletcher planned to take his forces north towards the Louisiades.
Takagi's carrier force entered the Coral Sea in the early morning hours of 6 May.

On 6 May, Fletcher joined TF 11 and TF 44 into TF 17. He thought the Japanese carriers were still well to the north. American planes did not find the Japanese naval forces, because they were located beyond the planes' range.

At 10:00, a Kawanishi flying boat from Tulagi saw TF 17 and sent a message to its headquarters. Takagi received the report at 10:50. At that time, Takagi's force was about north of Fletcher. Takagi's ships were still refueling, so he was not yet ready to battle. Takagi sent his two carriers with two destroyers under Hara's command to head towards TF 17 at so that they could attack the next day.

American B-17 bombers based in Australia attacked the Port Moresby invasion forces, including Gotō's warships, several times on 6 May without success. MacArthur's headquarters told Fletcher about the locations of the Japanese invasion forces. MacArthur's planes saw a carrier ("Shōhō") about northwest of TF17.
At 18:00, TF 17 completed fueling and Fletcher sent "Neosho" with a destroyer, , to wait further south. TF 17 then turned to head northwest towards Rossel Island. At 20:00 (), Hara met Takagi who completed refueling.

Late on 6 May or early on 7 May, "Kamikawa Maru" set up a seaplane base in the Deboyne Islands to help the invasion forces as they approached Port Moresby. The rest of Marumo's Cover Force waited near the D'Entrecasteaux Islands.

At 06:25 on 7 May, TF 17 was south of Rossel Island (). At this time, Fletcher sent Crace's cruiser and destroyer force out. When Crace's warships left, this reduced the anti-aircraft defenses for Fletcher's carriers. Fletcher wanted to make sure the Japanese invasion forces could not sneak through to Port Moresby while he was fighting with the Japanese carriers.

Fletcher thought Takagi's carrier force was north of his location. Fletcher told "Yorktown" to send 10 SBD dive bombers to search that area. Takagi launched 12 Type 97 carrier bombers at 06:00 to search for TF 17. Hara thought that Fletcher's ships were to the south. Gotō's cruisers and launched four Kawanishi E7K2 Type 94 floatplanes to search for the Americans. Each side got its carrier attack aircraft ready to launch once the enemy was located.
At 07:22 one of Takagi's carrier planes, from "Shōkaku" located American ships. At 07:45, the Japanese pilot located "one carrier, one cruiser, and three destroyers". Hara thought that he had found the American carriers. Hara launched all of his available aircraft. A total of 78 aircraft—18 Zero fighters, 36 Type 99 dive bombers, and 24 torpedo aircraft—began flying from "Shōkaku" and "Zuikaku" at 08:00.

At 08:20, one aircraft found Fletcher's carriers. Takagi and Hara continued with the attack on the ships to their south. They also turned their carriers towards the northwest to get closer to the Americans. Takagi and Hara thought that the U.S. carrier forces might be operating in two groups.

At 08:15, a "Yorktown" plane saw Gotō's force. He reported two carriers and four heavy cruisers" at , northwest of TF17. Fletcher thought he had found the Japanese main carrier force. He ordered all available carrier aircraft to attack. By 10:13, the American force of 93 aircraft – 18 F4F Wildcats, 53 SBD dive bombers, and 22 TBD Devastator torpedo bombers were flying. At 10:12, however, Fletcher received a report from three United States Army B-17s of an aircraft carrier, ten transports, and 16 warships.

Believing that this was the main Japanese carrier force, Fletcher directed the airplanes towards this target.
At 09:15, Takagi's force sighted "Neosho" and "Sims". Takagi now realized the American carriers were between him and the invasion forces. Takagi ordered his aircraft to attack "Neosho" and "Sims". At 11:15, the 36 dive bombers attacked the two American ships.

Four dive bombers attacked "Sims" and the rest attacked "Neosho". The destroyer was hit by three bombs, broke in half, and sank, killing all but 14 of her 192-man crew. "Neosho" was hit by seven bombs. Heavily damaged and without power, "Neosho" was sinking. "Neosho" told Fletcher by radio that she was under attack.

The American aircraft sighted "Shōhō" at 10:40 and attacked. The Japanese carrier was protected by six Zeros and two Type 96 'Claude' fighters flying combat air patrol (CAP). Gotō's cruisers surrounded the carrier.
Attacking first, "Lexington"s air group hit "Shōhō" with two bombs and five torpedoes, causing severe damage. At 11:00, "Yorktown"s air group attacked the burning carrier with 11 more bombs and two torpedoes. Torn apart, "Shōhō" sank at 11:35 (). Gotō sent his warships to the north, but sent the destroyer to rescue survivors. Only 203 of the carrier's 834-man crew were rescued. Three American aircraft were lost in the attack. All of "Shōhō"s aircraft were lost. At 12:10, a pilot told TF 17 that the attack was successful.

The American aircraft returned and landed on their carriers by 13:38. By 14:20, the aircraft ready to launch against the Port Moresby Invasion Force or Gotō's cruisers. Fletcher was worried that he did not know where the other Japanese fleet carriers were. Allied forces thought that up to four Japanese carriers might be nearby. Fletcher turned TF17 southwest.

When Inoue was told that "Shōhō" had been sunk, he ordered the invasion convoy to pull back to the north. He ordered Takagi to destroy the American carrier forces. As the invasion convoy pulled back, it was bombed by eight U.S. Army B-17s, but was not damaged. Gotō and Kajioka were told to place their ships south of Rossel Island for a night battle if the American ships got close enough.

At 12:40, a seaplane saw Crace's force. At 13:15, an aircraft from Rabaul saw Crace's force. Takagi turned his carriers west at 13:30 and told Inoue at 15:00 that the US carriers were too far away to attack them that day.
Inoue's men sent attack aircraft from Rabaul towards Crace. The first group included 12 torpedo-armed Type 1 bombers and the second group was 19 Mitsubishi Type 96 aircraft armed with bombs. Both groups found and attacked Crace's ships at 14:30. Crace's ships were undamaged and shot down four Type 1s. A short time later, three U.S. Army B-17s bombed Crace by accident, but caused no damage.

Crace radioed Fletcher that he could not complete his mission without airplanes. Crace moved southward. Crace's ships were low on fuel.

Takagi's staff thought that the Allied ships would be close enough to attack before nightfall. Takagi and Hara decided to attack with aircraft, even though they would have to return after dark.

To try to confirm the location of the American carriers, at 15:15 Hara eight torpedo bombers to look westward. The dive bombers returned from their attack on "Neosho" and landed. At 16:15 Hara launched 12 dive bombers and 15 torpedo planes with orders to try to find the American ships.

At 17:47, TF 17 detected the Japanese forces on radar heading in their direction. The Americans sent 11 CAP Wildcats to attack the Japanese planes. The Wildcats shot down seven torpedo bombers and one dive bomber, and heavily damaged another torpedo bomber. Three Wildcats were lost.

The Japanese leaders canceled the mission and returned to their carriers. The sun set at 18:30. Several of the Japanese dive bombers found the American carriers in the darkness and tried to land on them. Anti-aircraft fire from TF 17's destroyers sent them away. By 20:00, TF 17 and Takagi were about apart. Takagi turned on his ships' searchlights to help the 18 surviving aircraft get back.

At 15:18 and 17:18 "Neosho" radioed TF 17 that she was sinking. Fletcher knew his only nearby fuel supply was gone.

As nightfall ended aircraft flights for the day, Fletcher ordered TF 17 to head west. Crace also turned west. Inoue told Takagi to destroy the U.S. carriers the next day. He delayed the Port Moresby landings to 12 May. Takagi took his carriers north during the night to protect the invasion convoy. Gotō and Kajioka were unable to attack the Allied warships at night.

Both sides spent the night preparing their aircraft for the battle. In 1972, U.S. Vice Admiral H. S. Duckworth said Coral Sea was the most confused battle area in world history." Hara said he was so frustrated with the "poor luck" the Japanese had on 7 May that he felt like quitting the navy.

At 06:15 on 8 May, Hara launched seven torpedo bombers to search the area south from the Japanese carriers. Three Kawanishi Type 97s from Tulagi and four Type 1 bombers from Rabaul also helped in the search. At 07:00, the carrier force turned to the southwest and was joined by two of Gotō's cruisers, and . The invasion convoy, Gotō, and Kajioka moved east of Woodlark Island.

At 06:35, TF 17 launched 18 SBDs to search for Japanese ships. The skies over the American carriers were mostly clear.
At 08:20, a "Lexington" SBD spotted the Japanese carriers and told TF 17. Two minutes later, a "Shōkaku" plane saw TF 17 and told Hara. The two forces were about away from each other. Both sides got ready to launch their aircraft.
At 09:15, the Japanese carriers launched 18 fighters, 33 dive bombers, and 18 torpedo planes. The American carriers each launched a separate attack. "Yorktown"s group consisted of six fighters, 24 dive bombers, and nine torpedo planes. "Lexington"s group was made up of nine fighters, 15 dive bombers, and 12 torpedo planes. Both the American and Japanese carrier forces turned to head directly for each other.

"Yorktown"s dive bombers reached the Japanese carriers at 10:32. At this time, "Shōkaku" and "Zuikaku" were about apart, with "Zuikaku" hidden under clouds. The two carriers were protected by 16 CAP Zero fighters. The "Yorktown" dive bombers attacked at 10:57 on "Shōkaku" and hit the carrier with two bombs, causing heavy damage to the carrier's flight and hangar decks. The "Yorktown" torpedo planes missed with all of their torpedoes. Two U.S. dive bombers and two CAP Zeros were shot down during the attack.
"Lexington"s aircraft arrived and attacked at 11:30. Two dive bombers attacked "Shōkaku", hitting the carrier with one bomb, causing further damage. Two other dive bombers attacked "Zuikaku", missing with their bombs. The rest of "Lexington"s dive bombers were unable to find the Japanese carriers in the heavy clouds. "Lexington"s TBDs missed "Shōkaku" with all 11 of their torpedoes. The 13 CAP Zeros on patrol shot down three Wildcats.

With her flight deck heavily damaged and 223 of her crew killed or wounded, "Shōkaku" was unable to launch any more planes. At 12:10, "Shōkaku" and two destroyers pulled back to the northeast.

At 10:55, "Lexington"s radar detected the Japanese aircraft and sent nine Wildcats to attack the planes. Six of the Wildcats were too low, and they missed the Japanese aircraft as they passed by overhead. Because of the heavy losses in aircraft the night before, the Japanese could not do a full torpedo attack on both carriers. The Japanese sent 14 torpedo planes to attack "Lexington" and four to attack "Yorktown". A Wildcat shot down one and 8 "Yorktown" SBDs destroyed three. Four SBDs were shot down by Zeros escorting the torpedo planes.
The Japanese attack began at 11:13 as the carriers, stationed apart, fired with anti-aircraft guns. The four torpedo planes which attacked "Yorktown" all missed. The remaining torpedo planes hit "Lexington" with two Type 91 torpedoes. The first torpedo broke the aviation gasoline tanks. The second torpedo caused several of the boilers to stop working. Four of the Japanese torpedo planes were shot down by anti-aircraft fire.

The 33 Japanese dive bombers attacked after the torpedo attacks. The 19 "Shōkaku" dive bombers attacked "Lexington" while the remaining 14, attacked "Yorktown". Zeros protected the dive bombers from four "Lexington" CAP Wildcats. Takahashi's bombers damaged "Lexington" with two bomb hits, causing fires which were put out by 12:33. At 11:27, "Yorktown" was hit in the center of her flight deck by a single , semi-armor-piercing bomb which penetrated four decks before exploding, causing severe damage and killing or seriously wounding 66 men. Up to 12 near misses damaged "Yorktown"s hull below the waterline. Two of the dive bombers were shot down by a CAP Wildcat during the attack.
As the Japanese aircraft completed their attacks and began to fly back, they were attacked by US planes.

The planes, with many damaged aircraft, landed on their carriers between 12:50 and 14:30. "Yorktown" and "Lexington" were both able to land planes. Forty-six of the original 69 aircraft from the Japanese force returned. Three more Zeros, four dive bombers, and five torpedo planes were damaged beyond repair and were pushed into the ocean.

As TF 17 got its aircraft back, Fletcher thought about the situation. Fletcher knew both his carriers were hurt and that he had lost a lot of fighters. Fuel was also a problem due to the loss of "Neosho". At 14:22, Fitch told Fletcher that there were two undamaged Japanese carriers. Fletcher pulled TF17 out from the battle. Fletcher radioed MacArthur the position of the Japanese carriers and suggested that he attack them with bombers.

Around 14:30, Hara informed Takagi that only 24 Zeros, eight dive bombers, and four torpedo planes from the carriers were working. Takagi was worried about his ships' fuel levels; his cruisers were at 50% and some of his destroyers were as low as 20%. At 15:00 Takagi said he had sunk two American carriers – "Yorktown" and a "-class". Inoue called the invasion convoy to Rabaul, postponed "MO" to 3 July, and ordered his forces to gather northeast of the Solomons to begin the "RY" operation.

"Zuikaku" and her escorts turned towards Rabaul while "Shōkaku" headed for Japan.
Aboard "Lexington", an explosion killed 25 men and started a large fire. Around 14:42, another large explosion occurred, starting a second fire. A third explosion occurred at 15:25. "Lexington"s crew began abandoning ship at 17:07. After the carrier's survivors were rescued, including Fitch and the carrier's captain, Frederick C. Sherman, at 19:15 the destroyer fired five torpedoes into the burning ship, which sank in 2,400 fathoms at 19:52 ().

Two hundred and sixteen of the carrier's 2,951-man crew sunk with the ship, along with 36 aircraft. "Phelps" and the other warships left to rejoin "Yorktown", which departed at 16:01, and TF17 moved to the southwest. Later that evening, MacArthur informed Fletcher that eight of his B-17s had attacked the invasion convoy and that it was moving to the northwest.

That evening, Crace sent "Hobart", which was low on fuel, and the destroyer , which was having engine trouble, to Townsville. Crace remained on patrol in the Coral Sea in case the Japanese invasion force tried to go towards Port Moresby.

The battle was the first naval battle in history in which the ships never saw or fired directly at each other. Instead, aircraft were used to attack each other.

This was a carrier-versus-carrier battle. Neither commander had experience with this. The commanders had poor communications. This was hard, because the battle took place over a large area. The planes flew so fast that it meant there was not much time to make decisions.

The Japanese had problems because Inoue was too far away at Rabaul to direct his naval forces. Fletcher was on a carrier, so it was easier for him to direct his forces. The Japanese admirals did not share information quickly.

The experienced Japanese carrier aircrews did better than those of the U.S. The Japanese aircrews did more damage with the same number of aircraft. The Japanese attack on the American carriers on 8 May was better organized than the U.S. attack on the Japanese carriers.

The Japanese had much higher losses to their carrier aircrews. They lost ninety aircrew killed in the battle compared with thirty-five for the Americans. Japan's highly skilled carrier aircrews could not be replaced because the training programs could not produce enough new aircrew. There were not training programs to produce skilled pilots. Coral Sea was the start of Japan losing its experienced aircrews.

The Americans did learn from their mistakes in the battle. They made improvements to their carrier fighting approach. The Americans improved their anti-aircraft defences. Radar gave the Americans an advantage in this battle.

Following the loss of "Lexington", improved methods for carrying airplane fuel and better ways of dealing with damage were developed by the Americans. Coordination between the Allied land-based air forces and the U.S. Navy was poor during this battle.
Japanese and U.S. carriers would fight again in the battles of Midway, the Eastern Solomons, and the Santa Cruz Islands in 1942, and the Philippine Sea in 1944. Each of these battles had an impact on what would happen in the Pacific War.

Both sides claimed victory after the battle. In terms of ships lost, the Japanese won a victory by sinking an American fleet carrier, an oiler, and a destroyer – . The Americans sunk a light carrier, a destroyer, and several smaller warships – . "Lexington" was one quarter of U.S. carrier strength in the Pacific. The Japanese public was told it was a victory.

The Allies won because the sea invasion of Port Moresby was stopped. This meant that supply lines between the U.S. and Australia were protected. Although pulling "Yorktown" away from the Coral Sea was like giving the sea area to the Japanese, the Japanese stopped their invasion plans.

The battle was the first time that a Japanese invasion force was stopped. This improved the morale of the Allies. The Allies had been defeated by the Japanese during the first six months of the Pacific War.

Port Moresby was important to the Allies. The US Navy said that the damage it did to the Japanese was greater than what it really did.

The battle affected the planning of both sides. Without in New Guinea, the Allied advance would have been more difficult. For the Japanese, the battle was seen as a problem. The battle showed the Japanese that American were not that good in battle. The Japanese thought that future carrier attacks against the U.S. would be successful.

One of the most important effects of the Coral Sea battle was the loss of and .

Yamamoto wanted to use these carriers to battle American carriers at Midway ("Shōhō" was supposed to support the Japanese invasion ground forces). The Japanese thought that they sank two carriers in the Coral Sea, but this still left at least two more U.S. Navy carriers, "Enterprise" and "Hornet", which could fight at Midway.

American carriers had more planes than Japanese carriers. The US also had land-based aircraft at Midway. This meant that the Japanese did not have more planes at Midway. The Americans would have three carriers at Midway, because "Yorktown" could still sail, even with the damage from Coral Sea. The U.S. Navy was able to repair Yorktown at Pearl Harbor between 27 and 30 May so that she could fight in the battle.

At Midway, 's aircraft were important in sinking two Japanese carriers. "Yorktown" also took a lot of the Japanese air attacks at Midway which would have been directed at the other American carriers.
The Americans worked hard to get the maximum number of forces for Midway. The Japanese did not try to include "Zuikaku" in the operation. The Japanese did not try to put the "Shōkaku" aircrews with "Zuikaku"s air groups or provide "Zuikaku" with new aircraft. "Shōkaku" had a damaged flight deck which required three months of repair in Japan.

Historians H. P. Willmott, Jonathan Parshall, and Anthony Tully think Yamamoto made an error in deciding support the "MO". Since Yamamoto thought the big battle with the Americans would be at Midway, he should not have sent fleet carriers to less important battle like "MO". Japanese naval forces were weakened at both the Coral Sea and Midway battles, which allowed the Allies to defeat them.

Yamamoto did not notice another thing about the Coral Sea battle. The Americans put their carriers the right place and time to fight the Japanese. U.S. Navy carrier aircrews showed skill and tried to do major damage to the Japanese carrier forces. Japan lost four fleet carriers at Midway, which made Japan start to lose the Pacific War.

The Australians and U.S. forces in Australia were disappointed with the Battle of the Coral Sea. They thought that the "MO" operation was going to lead to an invasion of the Australian mainland. In a meeting held in late May, the Australian Advisory War Council said the battle was disappointing since the Allies knew about the Japanese plans.

General MacArthur told Australian Prime Minister John Curtin that Japanese forces could attack anywhere if supported by the IJN.
Because of the losses in carriers at Midway, the Japanese were unable to invade Port Moresby from the sea. Japan tried to capture Port Moresby by land. Japan began its attack towards Port Moresby along the Kokoda Track on 21 July from Buna and Gona.

By then, the Allies sent more troops to New Guinea. The added forces slowed and stopped the Japanese advance towards Port Moresby in September 1942. They also stopped the Japanese from capturing an Allied base at Milne Bay.

The Allies tried their to use their victories at Coral Sea and Midway to try to win the war against Japan. The Allies chose Tulagi and Guadalcanal as their first attacks.

The failure of the Japanese to take Port Moresby, and their defeat at Midway, meant Tulagi was not protected by other Japanese bases. Tulagi was four hours flying time from Rabaul, the nearest large Japanese base.

On 7 August 1942, 11,000 U.S. Marines landed on Guadalcanal and 3,000 U.S. Marines landed on Tulagi and nearby islands. The Japanese troops on Tulagi and nearby islands killed in the Battle of Tulagi and Gavutu-Tanambogo. The U.S. Marines on Guadalcanal captured an airfield under construction by the Japanese.

This started the Guadalcanal and Solomon Islands Campaigns. These resulted in a number of battles between Allied and Japanese forces over the next year. Along with the New Guinea campaign, this destroyed Japanese defences, caused huge losses for the Japanese military—especially the Navy. This helped the Allies to win the war against Japan.

The delay in the advance of Japanese forces also allowed the United States Marine Corps to land on Funafuti on October 2, 1942. The US built airfields from which USAAF B-24 "Liberator" bombers could fly. The atolls of Tuvalu were places the Allies could use to get ready for the Battle of Tarawa and the Battle of Makin that started on 20 November 1943.

Extreme Noise Terror

Extreme Noise Terror (often abbreviated to ENT) are a British crust punk / grindcore band originally formed in Ipswich, England in 1985. The band are one of the earliest European grindcore bands. They also helped to create the crustgrind subgenre.

They are one of the first hardcore punk bands to use two vocalists. They also recorded a number of sessions for BBC Radio 1 DJ John Peel. The band's songs have political lyrics, grinding guitars, and very fast tempos.

Extreme Noise Terror were formed in early 1985 in Ipswich, England, originally consisting of dual vocalists Dean Jones and Phil Vane, guitarist Pete Hurley, bassist Jerry Clay and drummer Darren Olley aka Pig Killer.


Si Brown -drums (1990)


Foreign policy of the United States

The foreign policy of the United States is the way that the United States acts towards other countries and involves setting out how US organizations, corporations, and individual citizens should act towards foreign countries. 

The US has a lot of power in the world for several reasons. The country has a $15 trillion economy and approximately a quarter of the global gross domestic product. It also has a defense budget of $711 billion, which is about 43% of military spending in the world. The US has a powerful military, which it can send out to protect countries or locations that are considered important to the country's foreign policy. 

The US Secretary of State does the same as the foreign minister of other countries and is responsible for diplomacy with other countries. The position is now held by Antony Blinken. However, the President of the United States has the highest authority over US foreign policy. 

The United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs aims to control nuclear technology and nuclear hardware, foster commercial relations with foreign nations, and safeguard US business abroad. The committee also watches over international agreements about commodities, international education, and the protection of American citizens abroad.

US foreign policy includes defining what actions and choices are in the best national interest and the strategies that are chosen to lead to the country's policy goals. Those goals are to create a more secure, democratic, and prosperous world. The US aims to achieve that goal for the benefit of its people and of the international community. 

US foreign policy and foreign aid have been the subject of much debate, praise and criticism from both within the US and in other countries.

John Laurie

John Paton Laurie (25 March 1897 – 23 June 1980) was a Scottish actor who was known for his role as James Frazer in the British sitcom "Dad's Army". 

Laurie was born on 25 March 1897 in Dumfries, Dumfriesshire, Scotland. He was married three times. He had one daughter. Laurie died on 23 June 1980 in his Chalfont St Peter, Buckinghamshire, England home from emphysema, aged 83 His ashes were scattered into the English Channel.


Codognè

Codognè is a town in Veneto. There are 5300 people living there. It is near Venice and the Dolomite Alps. The beaches of the Adriatic Sea are also nearby.

Arnold Ridley

William Arnold Ridley, OBE (7 January 1896 – 12 March 1984) was an English playwright and actor. He is known for his play "The Ghost Train" and for playing the elderly Private Charles Godfrey in the British sitcom "Dad's Army" (1968–77).

Ridley was born on 7 January 1896 in Bath, Somerset, England. He was married to Althea Parker from 1945 until his death in 1984. Ridley died on 12 March 1984 in Hillington, London, England from complications from a fall, aged 88.


Svalbard in fiction

Novelists, screenwriters and filmmakers have set their works in Svalbard, an archipelago in the Arctic which is the northernmost part of Norway. Fictional works about Svalbard often make reference to its Arctic climate, the isolation of the archipelago and the natural beauty of its vast glaciers, mountains and fjords.

"North of Danger", by Dale Hollerbach Fife, is a World War II story about a 12-year-old boy living in Svalbard who has to hide in a coal mine to avoid being caught by the Nazi invaders. The Commonwealth Club of California called "North of Danger" the best juvenile book of 1978. "Bear Island" is a 1971 thriller novel by Scottish author Alistair MacLean. It is about a movie crew who travels to Svalbard. When the group arrives in Svalbard, members of the crew start to get killed.

The Norwegian crime writer and glacier expert Monica Kristensen has written a novel set in Svalbard entitled "Operation Fritham". The novel tells the story of a group of World War II veterans who meet in Svalbard to remember Operation Fritham. This was a 1942 Norwegian military operation which aimed to capture the coal mines so that Nazi Germany could not use the coal. The elderly soldiers do not realize that one member of the group is not really an old soldier. One person is a murderer who is pretending to be a veteran. The head of the Svalbard police force has to solve the mystery.

"Dark Matter", by Michelle Paver, is a ghost story set in 1937 in a lonely bay in Svalbard. A group of scientists go to Svalbard and prepare to spend the winter in an old mining camp. However, they discover that there is some scary person or creature hiding in the ice.

Svalbard is the home of the armored polar bears in Philip Pullman's "His Dark Materials" trilogy of books. This trilogy of fantasy novels form an epic that includes "Northern Lights" (1995, published as "The Golden Compass" in North America), "The Subtle Knife" (1997), and "The Amber Spyglass" (2000). It follows the story of two children, Lyra Belacqua and Will Parry. The three novels have won awards, including the 2001 Whitbread Book of the Year prize, won by "The Amber Spyglass". "Northern Lights" won the Carnegie Medal for children's fiction in the UK in 1995. The won third place in the BBC's Big Read poll in 2003. The story involves fantasy story parts such as witches and armoured polar bears.

"Neige Noir" ("Black Snow") is a 1974 novel by Canadian author Hubert Aquin about a newly married Montreal couple who travel to Svalbard. "The Svalbard Passage" by Thomas Kirkwood is a thriller set in the US, Norway and Svalbard during the Cold War.

"The Solitude Of Thomas Cave", by Georgina Harding, is a novel about a sailor who spends a whole winter in Svalbard. A review states that the "descriptions of scenery are outstanding".
Filmmaker Knut Erik Jensen made three short films about Svalbard: "Svalbard in the World" (1983), "Cold World" (1986) and "My World" (1987). This Svalbard trilogy has been called "an artistic peak" for him. The Norwegian film "Orion's Belt" (1985) ("Orions belte" was the original title) is set in Svalbard. The film, which was directed by Ola Solum, shows the white icebergs and mountain ranges. It was one of the two 1980s Norwegian films which "...found large audiences...internationally". The 1998 Belgian-Dutch-German movie "When the Light Comes" is set in Svalbard.

James Beck

Stanley James Carroll Beck (21 February 1929 – 6 August 1973) was an English actor. He is best remembered for his role as Private Joe Walker, the cockney spiv in the popular BBC sitcom "Dad's Army".

Beck was born on 21 February 1929 in Islington, London, England. He was married to Kay Beck until his death in 1973. Beck died on 6 August 1973 from pancreatitis in Roehampton, Wandsworth, London, England, aged 44.


Ian Lavender

Arthur Ian Lavender (16 February 1946 – 2 February 2024), better known as Ian Lavender, was an English stage, movie and television actor. He is best known for his role as Private Frank Pike in the BBC comedy series "Dad's Army". He was the last surviving cast member to have played one of the seven main characters within the platoon.

Lavender was born in Birmingham, England on 16 February 1946. He studied at the Bournville Boys Technical School and later Bournville Grammar-Technical School for Boys. 

His first television appearance was as the lead in a Rediffusion play entitled "Half Hour Story: Flowers at my Feet" in 1968. In 1968, aged 22, Lavender was cast as Private Pike, the youngest member and 'stupid boy' of the platoon in the BBC sitcom "Dad's Army". He appeared in the entire run of the series, and in the spinoff movie released in 1971.

Lavender starred in the movie, "31 North 62 East" (released September 2009), an independent psychological thriller starring John Rhys-Davies, Marina Sirtis, Heather Peace and Craig Fairbrass. In August 2013 Lavender made his Edinburgh Fringe debut in a stage version of "The Shawshank Redemption".

Lavender was married to actress Sue Kerchiss from 1967 until they divorced in 1973. He married his second wife, the American Miki Hardy in 1993.

Lavender was diagnosed with bladder cancer in 1993. It was removed in an operation and he has recovered. He had a heart attack in 2004. He died on 2 February 2024, two weeks before his 78th birthday. His death was announced three days later.

Survivor Series (2004)

Survivor Series (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 14, 2004 at the Gund Arena in Cleveland, Ohio. It was the eighteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


Isaiah Wohlgemuth

Isaiah Wohlgemuth (September 15, 1915 - January 6, 2008) wrote a widely read book, "A Guide to Jewish Prayer". He was from Germany and came to the United States after World War II. He studied at a religious school in Berlin. He was ordained as a rabbi. His synagogue was destroyed. The building was burned on Kristallnacht. He was imprisoned in a concentration camp. As soon as the war was over, he came to the United States and lived in Boston. In Boston he went back to school. He studied for many years and received a doctorate (an advanced degree) in education. He taught students in Boston for more than 50 years. Because he was a rabbi and had a doctorate, he was called "Rabbi Dr. Wohlegemuth." 

Rabbi Wohlgemuth, died January 6, 2008. He had Parkinson's disease. 

HIStory: Past, Present and Future

HIStory: Past, Present and Future is the ninth studio album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1995. It is Jackson's first album on his record label MJJ Productions. The album has two discs. The first disc is a 'greatest hits' of fifteen popular singles Jackson had released from his previous albums. The second disc is fifteen new songs. Two of them are Jackson's versions of songs that have already been made by people. The album has sold 25 million copies around the world. It is the best selling album with more than one disc. On November 13 2001 the first disc was released again on its own as "Greatest Hits: HIStory, Volume I". It has sold 4 million copies. 

Six singles were released around the world from the second disc. The first single "Scream" was a duet with Jackson's sister Janet Jackson. It reached number one in New Zealand, Italy, and Spain. 

The second single "You Are Not Alone" was written and produced by R. Kelly. It was the first song ever to go straight to number one in the "Billboard" Hot 100. 

The third single "Earth Song" did not reach the Billboard Hot 100. However, it is Jackson's best selling single in the United Kingdom. It was number one there for six weeks.

The sixth single was "Stranger in Moscow". It reached number one in Italy and Spain.

The fourth single, "This Time Around", had The Notorious B.I.G. rapping in it.

"They Don't Care About Us" was released on March 31, 1996. It was number one in Germany for three weeks.

"Stranger in Moscow" was the last single released from the album. It was the least successful single in the United States.

"Rolling Stone" gave the album four stars out of five. "The Seattle Times" gave the second disc of HIStory a bad review.

Jackson did the HIStory World Tour to promote the album. It was Jackson's last tour.

Forever, Michael

Forever, Michael is the fourth studio album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1975. It was his last album to be released by Motown Records. The album was produced by Edward Holland, Jr., Brian Holland, Hal Davis, Freddie Perren, and Sam Brown III.

Three singles were released from the album. The first single "We're Almost There" reached number two in Turkey and number four in Australia. "Just a Little Bit of You" was released as "Forever Michael"'s second single. It reached number 23 in the US "Billboard" 100. The third single "One Day in Your Life" reached number one in the United Kingdom, Ireland and the Netherlands.

Got to Be There

Got to Be There is the debut studio album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1971. It has sold over 3.2 million copies around the world. Four singles were released from the album. It includes the hits "Got to Be There" and "Rockin' Robin" (originally sung by Bobby Day).

Invincible

Invincible is the tenth and final studio album by American singer-songwriter Michael Jackson. It was released in October 2001. It was the last studio album by Jackson to be released while Jackson was alive. It reached number one in eleven countries. Three singles were released from the album. The first single was "You Rock My World". "Cry" was released as the second single. It was written by R. Kelly. The Notorious B.I.G. rapped on the first song on the album, "Unbreakable". The album was unsuccessful compared to Jackson's previous albums. It sold thirteen million copies. "Rolling Stone" gave the album a rating of three out of five stars. "You Rock My World" was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Performance - Male.

Notes

Earth Song

"Earth Song" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the third single from . In 1996 Jackson performed the song at the BRIT Awards. Jarvis Cocker ran onto the stage and gave Jackson the V sign. Cocker explained, "My actions were a form of protest at the way Michael Jackson sees himself as some kind of Christ-like figure with the power of healing..."

Jackson wrote the song in a hotel in Austria when he was on tour.

It was the last song ever performed by Jackson. The video was filmed in the Amazon Rainforest, Karlovac, Tanzania, and New York. "Earth Song" is Jackson's best-selling single in the UK. 

The song was performed at the 2010 Grammy Awards by Jennifer Hudson, Carrie Underwood, Smokey Robinson, Celine Dion and Usher.

Heal the World

"Heal the World" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as a single from his album "Dangerous". The video does not have Jackson in it. In a 2001 Internet chat with fans, Jackson said "Heal the World" is the song he was most proud to have created. In the documentary Living With Michael Jackson, he said that he wrote the song in his "Giving Tree" at his Neverland Ranch. It reached No.1 in Spain. 

Jackson performed the song at the Super Bowl XXVII half-time show.

In 1992 Jackson made Heal the World Foundation, named after the song.

Black or White

"Black or White" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the first single from Jackson's eighth album "Dangerous" on November 11, 1991. Slash plays guitar at the start. Michael wrote the song with Bill Bottrell. It reached number one in the United States.

In 1992, Weird Al Yankovic made a song called "Snack All Night". The song was never released, but he performed it at a concert. 

The video was directed by John Landis. It is eleven minutes long. 500 million people watched it when it was shown for the first time in 27 different countries at once. This was the most people to ever watch a music video at once. The video starts with Macaulay Culkin. Tyra Banks is at the end of the short version of the video.

Ain't No Sunshine

"Ain't No Sunshine" is a 1971 song by Bill Withers. It was taken from his debut studio album "Just As I Am". It went to number 3 in the United States, number 17 in Australia, number 9 in Canada and number 7 in Scotland in 2020 following Withers death. It went on to be covered by Michael Jackson and Deni Hines.

Happy (Michael Jackson song)

"Happy" is a song by Michael Jackson. It is the fourth song on his third album "Music & Me". It was released as a single in Australia in 1973. It was written by Michel Legrand and
Smokey Robinson.

Girlfriend (Wings song)

"Girlfriend" is a song written by Paul McCartney. It was originally recorded by his band Wings in 1978. Michael Jackson covered the song on his 1979 album "Off the Wall". It was released in the UK as the album's fifth single.

The Way You Make Me Feel

"The Way You Make Me Feel" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the third single from Jackson's seventh album "Bad". It was produced by Quincy Jones. Like the two singles before it, it reached number 1 in the "Billboard" Hot 100. It was also number 1 in Spain. He performed the song at the 1988 Grammy Awards. After Jackson died in 2009 the song entered the charts again.

In the video Jackson follows a girl called Tatiana Thumbtzen around and sings "The Way You Make Me Feel". La Toya Jackson appears as one of the girl's friends.


Man in the Mirror

"Man in the Mirror" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was written by Siedah Garrett
and Glen Ballard. It was released as the fourth single from Jackson's seventh album, "Bad". It was nominated for Record of the Year at the Grammy Awards. It reached number one in the "Billboard" Hot 100. 

In 2009 Michael Jackson died and the song entered the charts again. It reached number two in the UK Singles Chart. This was much higher than when the song was first released in 1988.

Dirty Diana

"Dirty Diana" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fifth single from "Bad" April 18, 1988. It is about groupies. Steve Stevens plays guitar in it.

Another Part of Me

"Another Part of Me" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was in Jackson's 1986 3-D film "Captain EO". It was released as the sixth single from Jackson's seventh album "Bad" on July 11, 1988. "Another Part of Me" was not going to be on "Bad". But after Jackson's manager Frank DiLeo danced along to the song, it was decided that the song would be featured on the album. The song reached number eleven in the "Billboard" Hot 100.

Smooth Criminal

"Smooth Criminal" is a song written by Michael Jackson. It is the theme song of Jackson's 1988 movie "Moonwalker". It reached number 1 in the Netherlands, Flanders, and Spain.

On April 10, 2006 it was released again as a single from the "Visionary: The Video Singles" box-set. It was number 1 in Spain again.

In 2001, Alien Ant Farm released a cover version of the song. It was their first single. It was a number-one hit.

In 2023, English band Genesis will release their cover version of the song. This will be their only single.

Leave Me Alone

"Leave Me Alone" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the eighth single from Jackson's seventh album "Bad" in 1987. It reached number two in the UK Singles Chart. In Ireland it reached number one. The video won a Grammy Award in 1990 for Best Short Form Music Video.

Liberian Girl

"Liberian Girl" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the ninth single from "Bad". It was only released in Europe and Australia. It starts with the South African female singer saying "Nakupenda pia- nakutaka pia-mpenziwe", Swahili for "Love you too. I want you too, my love." Swahili is not actually spoken in Liberia. It reached number 1 in Ireland. The music video has lots of Jackson's celebrity friends in it. In 2009 the song came back into the charts in the UK, France, and Switzerland after Michael Jackson died. He initially wrote the song during the early 1980's "Thriller Era" as most Moonwalkers would say it.

Remember the Time

"Remember the Time" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the second single from his album "Dangerous" (1991) on January 14, 1992. It was written by Teddy Riley, Jackson, and Bernard Belle. When the single was released Jackson dedicated the song with love to Diana Ross. The music video is nine minutes long. John Singleton directed it. In 2006 the song was released again. It reached number 2 in the Spanish chart.

Who Is It (Michael Jackson song)

"Who Is It" is a song by Michael Jackson.
It was released as the fifth single from "Dangerous". Jackson wrote the song and he produced it with Bill Bottrell. He didn't perform the song in any of his tours.

Gone Too Soon

"Gone Too Soon" is a song made popular by Michael Jackson. It was written by Larry Gossman and Buzz Kohan.

In 1993, Jackson performed it at the celebration for Bill Clinton becoming the President of the United States.

In 1997, when Princess Diana died, Jackson let the song be put on an album called "Tribute". The album was a collection of songs made to remember her. The money made from the album was given to the Diana, Princess of Wales Memorial Fund.

Usher performed the song at Jackson's memorial service in 2009.

Stranger in Moscow

"Stranger in Moscow" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fifth single from "". Jackson wrote the song in September 1993 when he was in Moscow doing his Dangerous World Tour. The single reached number one in Italy.

They Don't Care About Us

"They Don't Care About Us" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fourth single from "" on March 31, 1996. Two videos were made for the song. This was the first time Jackson made two videos for a single. The first video was filmed in two places in Brazil, Dona Marta and Salvador. It was number 1 in Germany for three weeks.

Jackson was going to perform the song in his This Is It concerts in 2009.

In 2009, Northern Kings published their own version of the song on their album "Rethroned".

Smile (Charlie Chaplin song)

"Smile" is a song with music composed by Charlie Chaplin. This music was the theme for the soundtrack of one of Chaplin's movies, "Modern Times" (1936). The music had no lyrics. It was originally written in D minor. John Turner and Geoffrey Parsons added lyrics and a title in 1954. The lyrics are based on lines and themes from the movie. The singer is telling the listener to smile and be optimistic. "Smile" has become a popular song since its original use in Chaplin's movie.

The song, with its lyrics, was originally sung by Nat King Cole 

in Judy Garland sang a memorable version of "Smile" on The Ed Sullivan Show in 1963. 

Michael Jackson recorded his own version of the song in March 1993 for his album "" in 1995. The song was also recorded by Jimmy Durante as part of his album "Jackie Barnett Presents Hello Young Lovers". Durante's version was used prominently in the teaser trailer of the 2019 film "Joker" and is part of the film's soundtrack.


You Are Not Alone

"You Are Not Alone" is a song sung by Michael Jackson. R. Kelly wrote it. The video was directed by Wayne Isham. Lisa Marie Presley, who was Jackson's wife at the time, is in the video. It is the first song to go straight to number 1 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. It was also number one in the United Kingdom, Wallonia, France, New Zealand, Spain and Switzerland.

Diana Ross sung a cover version of the song on her 1996 album "Voice of Love".

On November 15, 2009, the last twelve acts from the sixth series of the British talent show "The X Factor" released a cover of the song.

Is It Scary

"Is It Scary" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was written to be on the soundtrack to "Addams Family Values". It was released to radio stations and clubs on November 8, 1993.

Blood on the Dance Floor (song)

"Blood on the Dance Floor" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the first single from "". Jackson made the song for his 1991 album "Dangerous".

Hold My Hand (Michael Jackson and Akon song)

"Hold My Hand" is a song by Michael Jackson featuring Akon. It was recorded in 2008. It was released posthumously in 2010, a year after Jackson's untimely death. It reached ten in the UK Singles Chart.

Hollywood Tonight

"Hollywood Tonight" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released on the album "Michael" after Jackson's death. 


Behind the Mask (song)

"Behind the Mask" is a synthpop song by the band Yellow Magic Orchestra. It was written by the band's keyboardist, Ryuichi Sakamoto. It was first produced in 1978 for a Seiko advertisement. It was later released in 1979 on the band's album "Solid State Survivor". English lyrics were added by Chris Mosdell.

Michael Jackson sang his own version of it. It was released in 2010, a year after Jackson's death on the album "Michael". Jackson's version was released as a single in France.

You've Got a Friend

"You're Got a Friend" is a 1971 song written by Carole King and was included on her second studio album "Tapestry". The best known version is by James Taylor and released as a single. It was taken from his third studio album "Mud Slide Slim and the Blue Horizon". It went to number 1 in the United States, number 4 in the United Kingdom, number 2 in Canada, number 16 in Argentina, number 3 in Ireland and number 14 in the Netherlands. It won two Grammy Awards in 1972. It went on to be covered by other artists including Michael Jackson, Dusty Springfield, Anne Murray and Donny Hathaway.

Too Young (popular song)

"Too Young" is a popular song. The music was written by Sidney Lippman. The lyrics were written by Sylvia Dee. The song was published in 1951.

Many people have sung their own versions of it. One of the best-known versions of the song was recorded by Nat King Cole in 1951. It reached the number 1 position on the "Billboard" charts. A version by Donny Osmond in 1972 was also successful. It spent eight weeks on the record charts, with a peak position of #13. Michael Jackson also recorded a version of the song.

We Are the World

"We Are the World" is a song written by Michael Jackson and Lionel Richie. It was first performed by the band USA for Africa in 1985. It was produced by Quincy Jones. It was meant to raise funds and awareness for the poor in Africa. It sold over 20 million copies. 800,000 records were sent out when the single was released. They were all sold in three days. It won three Grammy Awards. At the 1985 MTV Video Music Awards it won Best Group Video and Viewer's Choice.

The video showed the song being recorded at A&M Recording Studios. It was sold as a video cassette.

The group Artists for Haiti released their own version of the song in 2010. It was titled "We Are the World 25 for Haiti". It was a charity song to help victims of the earthquake in Haiti.

Eaten Alive (song)

"Eaten Alive" is a 1985 single by Diana Ross and was taken her the album of the same name. It was a commercial failure in the United States and went to number 10 in Italy.

Why (3T song)

"Why" is a song by 3T. Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds wrote the song. It was produced by Michael Jackson. This song was well received in European and Asian charts.

Heaven Can Wait (Michael Jackson song)

"Heaven Can Wait" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released October 30, 2001 on Jackson's album "Invincible". It is one of Jackson's slowest songs. Teddy Riley and Jackson wrote the song for the group BLACKstreet. Jackson asked Riley to give the song to him.

Fall Again

"Fall Again" is a song written and composed by Walter Afanasieff and Robin Thicke in 1999. They made it for Michael Jackson to perform. Jackson recorded a demo (draft) of the song in 1999 for his album "Invincible". He never finished it, however, and the song was never added to the album. It has since been performed by many other artists.

Don't Be Messin' 'Round

"Don't Be Messin' 'Round" is a song by Michael Jackson which did not make the cut for his "Bad" album. It was included in the track listing of "Bad 25".

Cee-Lo Green... Is the Soul Machine

Cee Lo's Magic Moment

Cee Lo's Magic Moment is the first Christmas studio album and overall fourth studio album by American singer Cee Lo Green on October 29, 2012 in the United Kingdom. It was released in the US on October 30 by Elektra Records. Green's versions of "Mary, Did You Know?" and "What Christmas Means to Me" were well-liked by the listeners. The album has sold many copies.

In the album, Green sings classic Christmas and seasonal songs in his own way. Rod Stewart, Christina Aguilera, Straight No Chaser, Trombone Shorty and The Muppets also sing with Green in the album. Stewart and The Muppets performed with Green the album's tracks at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas on October 10, 2012.

A music video was produced for "All I Need Is Love", which featured Cee-Lo, many of The Muppets and Craig Robinson.

Michael Jackson singles discography

This page lists singles released by Michael Jackson. It is a partial list only. It includes singles released physically (those that could be bought at a record shop) and other singles released on radio. It does not include re-issues.

The list shows how successful each single was on national record charts by listing the highest position each single reached on each chart. The national charts included are for the United States, Australia, Austria, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

Listed at the bottom are the record sales certifications for each single, which marks how many copies of each single were sold. The certifications are by RIAA, ARIA, Music Canada, IFPI Denmark, SNEP, BVMI, IFPI Norway, Recorded Music NZ, PROMUSICAE, IFPI Switzerland, and BPI.

This list includes:


Thriller

Thriller can refer to several things:


Thriller movie

A Thriller movie, also known as suspense movie, suspense thriller or simply Thriller, is a movie genre that creates excitement and suspense in the audience. The suspense in the plot of most movies is a main part of this genre. Tension is created by delaying what the audience knows is going to happen. It is built through situations that are scary or where the characters cannot escape.
Fight and chase scenes are common methods. Life is usually threatened in a thriller. This happens often when the protagonist does not see that they are entering a dangerous situation. The protagonist must usually deal with a problem, such as an escape, a mission, or a mystery.
Screenwriter Eric R. Williams lists thriller movies as one of eleven super-genres in his screenwriters' taxonomy. He says that all feature length movies can be classified by these super-genres. The other ten super-genres are action, crime, fantasy, horror, romance, science fiction, slice of life, sports, war, and western. Thrillers are commonly combined with other super-genres. The most common combinations are action thrillers and science fiction thrillers. Thriller movies have a close relationship with horror movies. Both use suspense as they tell the story. In plots about crime, thriller movies deal more on creating suspense than on the criminal or the detective. Common themes include, terrorism, political conspiracy and romantic triangles leading to murder.

One of the earliest thriller movies was Harold Lloyd's comedy "Safety Last!" (1923). It included a character performing a stunt on the side of a skyscraper. Alfred Hitchcock's first thriller was his third silent movie "" (1926). It is a suspenseful Jack the Ripper story. His next thriller was "Blackmail" (1929). It was his first sound movie and the first British sound movie . 

One of the earliest spy movies was Fritz Lang's "Spies" (1928). It had an anarchist international conspirator and criminal spy character named Haghi (Rudolf Klein-Rogge), who is pursued by good-guy Agent No. 326 (Willy Fritsch)/ This movie was an inspiration for the future James Bond movies. 

Hitchcock made more his suspense-thrillers during the 1940s. He directed "Foreign Correspondent" (1940), the Oscar-winning "Rebecca" (1940), "Suspicion" (1941) **"Saboteur" (1942) and "Shadow of a Doubt" (1943). Notable non-Hitchcock movies of the 1940s include "The Spiral Staircase" (1946), "Sorry, Wrong Number" (1948), and "The Third Man" (1949).

In the late 1940s, Hitchcock added Technicolor to his movies. Hitchcock's first Technicolor movie was "Rope" (1948). He reached the top of his career with several classic movies such as "Strangers on a Train" (1951), "Dial M For Murder" (1954), "Rear Window" (1954) and "Vertigo" (1958). Non-Hitchcock thrillers of the 1950s include "The Night of the Hunter" (1955) and Orson Welles's crime thriller "Touch of Evil" (1958).

After Hitchcock's classic movies of the 1950s, he made "Psycho" (1960). It is the story of a lonely, mother-fixated motel owner. He also produced . J. Lee Thompson's "Cape Fear" (1962), with Robert Mitchum, as man trying to get revenge.

The 1970s saw an increase of violence in the thriller genre. This began with Canadian director Ted Kotcheff's "Wake in Fright" (1971). It is almost completely a horror movie. "Frenzy" (1972) was Hitchcock's first British movie in almost two decades. It was given an R rating for its strangulation scene.

One of the first movies about a person being obsessed with their idol was Clint Eastwood's "Play Misty for Me" (1971). It is about a California disc jockey who is being stalked by a female listener (Jessica Walter). John Boorman's "Deliverance" (1972) tells the story of four Southern businessmen on a weekend trip. 

In the early 1990s, thrillers were often about obsession and trapped protagonists who must find a way to escape a villain. Rob Reiner's "Misery" (1990) featured Kathy Bates as a fan who terrorizes an author (James Caan) who is in her care after an accident. Other movies include Curtis Hanson's "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle" (1992) and "Unlawful Entry" (1992).Detectives or FBI agents hunting down a serial killer was another popular movie idea in the 1990s. A famous example is Jonathan Demme's Best Picture–winning crime thriller "The Silence of the Lambs" (1991). In it, FBI agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) needs the help of a cannibalistic psychiatrist named Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to find the serial killer Buffalo Bill. David Fincher's crime thriller "Seven" (1995), about the search for a serial killer whose murders are bases on the seven deadly sins.

Another notable example is Martin Scorsese's psychological thriller "Shutter Island" (2010). In it, a U.S. Marshal must investigate a psychiatric facility after one of the patients disappears.

In recent years, thrillers have often overlapped with the horror genre. They have more elements that are common to horror movies. Examples of this include "Disturbia" (2007), "Eden Lake" (2008), "The Last House on the Left" (2009) , and A Quiet Place (2018). 

The thriller movie genre includes the following sub-genres, with examples:

Penile cancer

Penile cancer is cancer of the penis. It is relatively rare in developed countries. In developing countries, however, it is much more common. It can be dangerous.

Being uncircumcised is a risk factor for penile cancer. Circumcision lowers the chance of ever getting cancer of the penis to near zero. The foreskin is a possible source of penile cancer. Childhood circumcision has a strong protective effect against penile cancer in later life. Penile cancer has been nearly eliminated in populations of males circumcised shortly after birth. Circumcision nearly eliminates the risk of invasive penile cancer. Invasive penile cancer means the cancer begins to spread in the body. It is uncommon but often causes the man to die. 

Carl Rogers

Carl Ransom Rogers (January 8, 1902 – February 4, 1987), was a 20th-century humanistic (client-centered) psychologist. His 1969 collection of essays, "Freedom to Learn", was influential for a young generation in the late 1960s and through the 1970s. Rebellions against college teaching methods, the deschooling movement, flower power and the alternative society often referred to Roger's ideas in their various pamphlets. Rogers is regarded as the second most influential therapist (clinical psychologist) of the 20th century (behind Freud).

Rogers was born and raised in Oak Park, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. His parents were Walter Rogers and Julia Cushing. He was the fourth of six children. Rogers was educated in a strict, religious environment. He was first interested in studying agriculture at the University of Wisconsin-Madison with a focus on history and religion. His interest changed from agriculture to religion. He received a bachelor's degree in 1924. After that, he entered a liberal Protestant seminary in New York City. That went against the views of his conservative father. Rogers spent two years in seminary. He later transferred to Columbia University Teachers College, where he worked with John Dewey. Rogers received his master's degree in 1928. In 1931, he received a PhD in clinical psychology from Columbia University.

After receiving his PhD, Rogers worked at Ohio State University, the University of Chicago, and the University of Wisconsin. During that time, he developed what was later known as client-centered therapy. After his work at the University of Wisconsin, Rogers worked at the Western Behavioral Studies Institute in LaJolla, California. From there he and several other people formed the Center for Studies of the Person (CSP). He remained there until his death in 1987.

During the last ten years of his life, Rogers used his person-centered approach in a broader field of work. He used helping relationships in the resolution of inter-group and international conflict. He and his colleagues conducted many experiments in cross cultural communication and peacemaking in the Carl Rogers Peace Project. For this work, Rogers was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. The work is not widely known, but it puts Rogers' contributions into a wider social and political context.


Survivor Series (2003)

Survivor Series (2003) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 16, 2003 at the American Airlines Center in Dallas, Texas. It was the seventeenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


Newark Liberty International Airport

Newark Liberty International Airport , first named Newark Metropolitan Airport and later Newark International Airport, is an airport located in New Jersey. It is located between Newark and Elizabeth. It is around 15 miles (24 km) southwest of Midtown Manhattan in New York City. It is owned by the city of Newark and run by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. It was the first major airport in the United States. It is the busiest airport in the New York metropolitan area by number of flights.

The New York City metropolitan area's John F. Kennedy International Airport, LaGuardia Airport, and Newark Liberty International airports are the largest airport system in the United States. They are the second busiest system of airports in the world by number of passengers. They are the busiest in the world in terms of total flight operations. In 2012, the airport had just under 34 million million passengers. JFK had 49.3 million, and LaGuardia had 25.7 million.

On September 11, 2001, United Airlines Flight 93 left Newark on its way to San Francisco International Airport. Two hours later, it crashed into a field just outside of Shanksville, Pennsylvania, killing all crew members and passengers on the plane. The passengers had tried to take over the plane from a team of terrorists who took over it. Had it not crashed in Pennsylvania, it is believed that the plane would have crashed into the United States Capitol or the White House. In 2002, to honor the people who were killed on September 11, the airport's name was changed from "Newark International Airport" to "Newark Liberty International Airport".


Cinquillo

The cinquillo is a syncopated rhythm found in a number of Afro-Latin musical styles. It is present in the Cuban habanera and danzón, and in the Argentine tango. It is, with polyrhythms, a characteristic African influence on Latin music.


Home theater

A home theater or home theatre is a theater built in a home. Home theaters are designed to be like watching a movie at a movie theatre. 

Wireless access point

In computer networks, a wireless access point is a device that allows people to connect Wi-Fi devices such as laptop computers on a wireless LAN, to a wired network. The access point is often connected to a wireless Router.

A wireless ad hoc network uses two or more devices without a wireless access point. Ad hoc networks are easier to set up because an access point is not needed. This makes it similar to Bluetooth.

It is suggested for each access point to only serve 15-25 client devices This depends on the number of devices in an area, the needed speed of data transfer, location and radio channels of the access point, obstacles and more. A repeater, which repeats the signal, can be used to reach farther places.

There are only a few radio channels for wireless networks. Nearby access points may use different channels to prevent them from obstructing each other.


Section.80

Section.80 is the first studio album by Kendrick Lamar. It was released on July 2011 through Top Dawg Entertainment. Its lyrics tell stories about two different women "Keisha" and "Tammy". It was supported by the promotional conscious hip hop song "HiiiPoWeR".

The album sold very well. It caught the attention of Dr. Dre who discovered Kendrick Lamar and signed him to Aftermath Records and Interscope Records.

The album Section.80 is a concept album which lyrics revolve around two different women: "Keisha" and "Tammy". Keisha is a fictional prostitute who seeks prostitution only to her demise. Tammy is woman who had a boyfriend, but leaves him after discovering he was unfaithful. She then kills him. She also talks about another women going through the same thing. These two women then become lesbian and become afraid of all males. HiiiPoWeR is a protest song and was the only single released from Section.80, The music video was released with the begin showing a statement from Lamar, saying that he was ordered to. The statement may be meant figuratively. The lyrics to the album deal with racism as well as many other topics. Lamar said in a interview that Section.80 is for people who are from the 1980s, which may explain the title.

The album cover shows ammuntion to a rifle with the Bible covered with weed and a lighter. This sparked some controversy, saying it was at it was disrespectful to the Bible. Lamar later explained that no disrespect was meant towards the Bible.


Good Kid, M.A.A.D City

Good Kid, M.A.A.D. City (written as good kid, m.A.A.d city) is the second studio album by Kendrick Lamar. It was released on October 22, 2012 through Top Dawg Entertainment, Aftermath Records and Interscope Records. After the release of Lamar's mixtape "Overly Dedicated" (2010), Dr. Dre quickly signed him to his record label Aftermath.

The lyrics are about Lamar's childhood, living in Compton. He experienced gang violence and the use of drugs, which left him stuck on that type of style. It was supported by several singles, including: "Bitch, Don't Kill My Vibe", "Swimming Pools (Drank)", "Money Trees", "Backseat Freestyle", "m.A.A.d. city", and "The Recipe". Other musicians featured on the album include Dr. Dre, Jay-Z, Schoolboy Q, MC E, Black Hippy, Jay Rock and Drake.

Tracklisting

Suicide prevention

Suicide prevention is when local organizations, mental health doctors and nurses, and psychologists try to stop people from attempting suicide. One thing to do is stop people who are about to attempt suicide. Another way to stop people from attempting suicide is to treat the symptoms of depression, help people to cope during a time of crisis, reduce the issues that put people at risk of attempting suicide, and give people hope for a better future.

Suicide is not just a medical or mental health issue. Making sure people have friends and family to help them and taking away dangerous items can also stop people from attempting suicide.

In the U.S., there is a National Strategy for Suicide Prevention. It was created by the Department of Health and Human Services in 2001. Suicide prevention activities include messages aimed at people and messages for everyone in the community.

In 2001, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services created a National Strategy for Suicide Prevention. The document looks at how suicide can be stopped in the community. The strategy does not say how to help individual people. The document has the following goals:


To help stop people from attempting suicide, many methods have been used:
It has also been suggested that news media can help prevent suicide by linking suicide with negative results, such as pain for the pain felt by the family.

Many methods of stopping suicide exist. These include talking to the person, looking for risks, and making it harder for people to get dangerous items.

The World Health Organization says a good way to help people who are suicidal is to talk to them. The person can also be asked about depression, and if they plan to attempt suicide. Talking with people about suicide does not create suicidal thoughts. The doctor has to show concern and compassion. Doctors should try to reduce sadness and let the person know that people care. The WHO says not to not say everything will be all right. However, some people who have talked about suicide have attempted it. This means that doctors need to make sure the person is comfortable talking about his or her feelings.

The U.S. Surgeon General says there are ways to find out which people are at risk of suicide. This may be the best way to stop children and adolescents from attempting suicide.
There are tools like questionnaires to help doctors to know who is at risk. One example is the Beck Hopelessness Scale. These questionnaires are good for finding adolescents and young adults who might want to attempt suicide. Doctors should interview people who seem to be at risk. Questionnaires may not always tell doctors which person will attempt suicide Asking about suicide does not increase the risk.

In approximately 75 percent of suicides, the people had seen a doctor in the last year. About 45 to 66 percent of people saw a doctor the month they committed suicide. About 33 to 41 percent of those who committed suicide had used mental health services in the prior year. About 20 percent used mental health services in the month before they committed suicide. This shows that doctors need to get better at knowing which people will attempt suicide.

Making it hard for people to get dangerous things is an important part of suicide prevention. Making it hard for people to get dangerous items can lead to less suicides. Putting up fences at bridges and cliffs reduces suicides. Putting up signs or increasing patrols is not so helpful One example of making dangerous items less available is coal gas in the United Kingdom. Until the 1950s, the most common way of committing suicide in the UK was poisoning by inhaling coal gas. In 1958, natural gas was used instead. Natural gas is much less dangerous. So less people committed suicide.
In the United States,studies show that firearms increase suicide risk. Because guns are quick and more dangerous than other suicide method, they lead to more suicides.

Treatments to reduce the risk of suicide can include medical approaches, prescription medicine, and talk therapy.

About 10% of people with psychiatric problems may have a medical condition that the doctor does not know about which is causing their symptoms. About 50% may have a medical condition that the doctor does not know about which is making their symptoms worse. Illegal drugs and prescribed medications may also cause problems. Treating medical conditions may reduce the risk of suicidal ideas.

Recent research shows that lithium lowers the risk of suicide for people with bipolar disorder.

Talk therapy can reduce suicidal ideas such as Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT). Benefits include a reduction in self-harm behaviour and suicidal ideas. Cognitive Behavior Therapy for Suicide Prevention (CBT-SP) helps adolescents at high risk of suicide attempts.

The World Health Organization states that "worldwide, suicide is among the top five causes of mortality in the 15- to 19-year age group. In many countries it ranks first or second as a cause of death among both boys and girls in this age group". The organization says teens need help with difficult and stressful life situations." It also says that teachers need to prevent bullying and violence at schools.

Many non-profit organizations exist that try to prevent suicide. Examples include the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention in the United States, which provide crisis hotlines. In addition, some groups such as To Write Love on Her Arms use social media to reach more people.



Dialectical behavior therapy

Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) is a form of psychotherapy developed by Marsha M. Linehan, a psychology researcher at the University of Washington. Linehan originally developed DBT to help people with borderline personality disorder (BPD).

DBT uses cognitive-behavioral techniques to get patients to control their emotions and test what reality is. It also tests the patient's tolerance for distress, and tries to get them to accept their situation and be aware of their feelings.

Linehan's ideas about how to be aware of your feelings come from Buddhist meditation. DBT may be the first therapy that has been shown to be effective in treating BPD. It can also help patients with spectrum mood problems, including self-injury. DBT may help victims of sexual abuse and people addicted to drugs.

In the early 1990’s, Dr. Marsha Linehan developed an alternative therapy to treat her borderline personality disorder patients. Instead of having a one-way conversation with the patient, the therapist would engage him through the use of real world examples to elicit the desired responses. One by one, Linehan was able to teach her patients how to react differently in a variety of situations. This process removes the obstacles to treatment that had confused therapists treating suicidal patients. In a recent study, DBT has proven especially effective in reducing self-injurious behavior, suicide attempts and inpatient treatment days.

DBT has also been used to treat alcohol addiction and drug addiction.

National Library of Greece

The National Library of Greece is the national library of Greece. It is in Athens. It was created in 1832.


Obstetrics

Obstetrics is the medical speciality that deals with helping a woman during pregnancy and childbirth. It is part of gynaecology.

Transgender Day of Remembrance

Transgender Day of Remembrance (TDoR) is an event that happens every year on November 20 around the world. It is about remembering transgender people who were killed by people who do not like transgender people (transphobes). It was started in 1998 by Gwendolyn Ann Smith, a transwoman. Smith made the event because a Afro-American transwoman called Rita Hester was murdered. It happens on the last day of Transgender Awareness Week.


National Library of Spain

The National Library of Spain () is in Madrid. It is Spain's largest library. It is also one of the world's largest libraries. It was started by King Philip V of Spain in 1712.


Jack T. Chick

Jack Thomas Chick (April 13, 1924 – October 23, 2016) was an American publisher, writer, and comic book artist. He mainly wrote evangelical Christian fundamentalist tracts and comic books. His comics have been described as hate literature by the "Los Angeles Magazine". He was born in Los Angeles, California.

Chick's company, Chick Publications, claims to have sold over 750 million tracts, comics tracts and comic books, videos, books, and posters designed to spread Protestant evangelism from a fundamentalist Christian point of view. Many of his tracts are controversial. For example, some of the tracts accuse Roman Catholics, Freemasons, Muslims and many other groups of murder and conspiracies. Chick says his views are just not politically correct.

His views have been spread around the world, mostly through the tracts and now online. They have been translated into more than 100 languages. Chick is an Independent Baptist who follows a premillennial dispensationalist view of the end times. He is an firm believer in the King James Only movement, which says that every English translation of the Bible more recent than 1611 promotes heresy.

Chick tracts are used to spread Evangelicalism and evangelical Christian ideas. The most known of tracts is This Was Your Life!, which was made in 1964. They are known for spreading fundamentalist beliefs and even banned in some countries as hate literature. Some of his tracts are shown in the Smithsonian Institution.

Chick died on October 23, 2016 in Los Angeles from complications of diabetes, aged 92.

Hatfield, Herefordshire

Hatfield is a small village near Leominster in Herefordshire. In the village is a caravan site called Fair View caravan site. It has a small church called Hatfield St. Leonard, built . It is of Norman design. It is built of local sandstone. Other nearby hamlets and towns include Bockleton, Bromyard and Leominister. The city of Hereford is south of Hatfield. The Herefordshire Trail (walking trail) runs through the village.

Kingdom of Lindsey

The Kingdom of Lindsey was in approximately what is now Lincolnshire. At the time of the Roman conquest of Britain, it was a part of the territory of the Corieltauvi tribe. Lindsey appears in the 7th century list called the Tribal Hidage, where it is shown to be the same size as Essex and Sussex, all of which were set at 7,000 hides. It was a lesser Anglo-Saxon kingdom which was disputed over by Northumbria and Mercia. It ceased to exist as an independent kingdom during the reign of Offa of Mercia.

Lindsey was between the River Humber on the north and the Witham on the south. To the east lay the North Sea and the west border was the River Trent. The Roman canal called Foss Dyke connected the Witham with the Trent on the southwestern border. Also to the west was Hatfield Chase, a low lying area of marshes. This meant Lindsey was completely surrounded by water. This led to the popular belief that Lindsey was an Island.

The name Lindsey comes from the word "Lindissi" (also spelled "Lindesse" and "Lindesig"). Lindsey is a British name and not an Old English (or the Anglo-Saxon language) name. Lindsey was an Anglo-Saxon kingdom but it had a strong Celtic population. Lindsey seems to have been an independent kingdom with its own Celtic rulers for a time. It came under the control of Northumbria from –658. Then it was subject to Mercia from –. It returned to Northumbrian control again from –679. In 679 it was taken over by Mercia. Its kings were reduced in rank to Ealdormen.

The conversion to Christianity in Lindsey began by Paulinus. Bishop Wilfrid was appointed the bishop of Northumbria, which included Lindsey, in 665. After a delay, he was installed as bishop in 669. When he was expelled from Northumbria in 678, his diocese was divided up. Archbishop Theodore formed Lindsey into a separate diocese with its own bishop. According to the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, in the year 678 Eadhed was the first bishop of Lindsey. In the 9th century, the Danes (Vikings) colonized Lindsey. This marked the end of the diocese of Lindsey.

"Haethfieldlande" or Hatfield was another minor Anglo-Saxon kingdom listed in the Tribal Hidage. Very little is known about Hatfield and nothing of its kings. Unlike other petty kingdoms in this area of Britain, the name here is of Anglo-Saxon origin and not British. According to the Tribal Hidage, 'Hatfield-land' was merged with Lindsey into a single kingdom. Afterwards it became known simply as Hatfield Chase, an area on the west part of Lindsey, later part of Yorkshire and Lincolnshire. Hatfield was the site of a synod held by Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury . It was a royal residence of several kings of Northumbria. Edwin of Northumbria was killed here at the Battle of Hatfield Chase on 12 October 633. Later, Hatfield became a part of the East Riding of Yorkshire.

The Anglian collection is a collection of royal genealogies and regnal lists. It was put together during the reign of Alhred of Northumbria (765-774). It records the kings of Deira and Bernicia (which became Northumberland), Mercia, Lindsey, Kent, East Anglia and Wessex. These genealogies all trace back to Woden. The most trustworthy name in the Lindsey genealogy is Caedbaed, according to most modern historians. The family of Aldfrið is also considered fairly certain. The other names are simply from the list with little or no additional information. The list of kings of Lindsey begins with:


None of dates are certain. With regard to Aldfrith, the witness list for an Anglo-Saxon charter includes an "Ealfrid rex". This dates to some time between 787 and 796.

Rick Ross

William Leonard Roberts II (born January 28, 1976), known professionally as Rick Ross, is an American rapper, songwriter and record executive.

After releasing his debut single, "Hustlin'" in 2006, Ross became the subject of a bidding war, receiving offers from Diddy's Bad Boy Entertainment and Irv Gotti's Murder Inc., before signing a multi million dollar deal with Jay Z's Def Jam Records. Ross released his debut album Port Of Miami through the label later that year, debuting at the top spot on the U.S. "Billboard" 200 album chart, with sales of 187,000 units during the first week. Ross released his second studio album, "Trilla" in 2008, once again debuting atop the "Billboard" 200.

In 2009, Ross founded the record label Maybach Music Group, on which he released his studio albums "Deeper Than Rap" (2009), "Teflon Don" (2010), "God Forgives, I Don't" (2012), "Mastermind", "Hood Billionaire" (2014), "Black Market" (2015), and "Rather You Than Me" (2017). Ross was also the first artist signed to Diddy's management company Ciroc Entertainment. In early 2012, MTV named Ross as the Hottest MC in the Game.

Social cognitive theory

Social cognitive theory (SCT) says that a part of a person's knowledge acquisition comes from observing others. This is done through actions with other people, experiences, and the effects of the media. The theory is used in psychology, education and communication. It was advanced by Albert Bandura. The theory is a part of his social learning theory. The theory say that when people see someone doing something and the consequences of that action, they remember what happened and use this information to guide their own actions. Watching a person do something can also cause the viewer to act in a way they have already learned. In other words, people do not learn new behaviors only by trying them and either succeeding or failing. The survival of humanity sometimes depends on taking the actions other people took. When people are rewarded or punished for their behavior, the outcome of the behavior helps people choose to do the same thing or not. Media is a source of many things for people to watch and see these actions take place.

The basis for social cognitive theory come from Edwin B. Holt and Harold Chapman Brown's 1931 book. It says that all animal action is based on needs of "feeling, emotion, and desire". The most notable part of this theory is that it saya a person cannot learn to imitate until they are imitated.

In 1941, a book by Neal E. Miller and John Dollard had a new version of Holt's theory. They said four things affect learning: drives, cues, responses, and rewards. One driver is social motivation, It includes imitativeness, the process of matching an action to a cue of where and when to perform the action. If a behavior is imitated depends on if the person doing it gets a positive or negative response. Miller and Dollard said that if a person were motivated to learn a particular behavior, then that behavior would be learned through watching. By imitating these actions a person would learned the action and would be rewarded with positive reinforcement.

SCT has been used to many areas of human life. These include career choice, learning and achievement.



Absolute threshold of hearing

The absolute threshold of hearing (ATH) is the minimum loudness of a pure tone that an average ear with normal hearing can hear with no other sound present. The absolute threshold relates to the sound that can just be heard by the organism. This is also known as the auditory threshold.

The threshold of hearing in humans is 20 µPa (micropascals) = 2×10 pascal (Pa). The tympanic membrane of the ear operates as a sound pressure sensor, as does a microphone

Measurement of the absolute hearing threshold provides some basic information about our auditory system. The tools used to collect such information are called psychophysical methods.

Because human hearing is more sensitive to some frequency bands than others, thresholds vary depending on the frequency of the stimulus tone.

International Bank Account Number

The International Bank Account Number is an internationally-recognised way of identifying bank account numbers. Its abbreviation is "IBAN". The IBAN was developed to enable people in the European Union to send money to a bank account in another country. When a person uses a computer to make a money transfer, the IBAN has features that allow the person’s computer to check for typing errors.
The IBAN is now used in all European countries and also in many developing countries. Developed countries outside Europe such as the United States, Australia and Canada do not use the IBAN.

IBANs are usually written in groups of four characters. This makes it easy for people to copy the numbers.

The first four characters in an IBAN have the same meaning throughout the world. Each country has its own layout for the rest of the IBAN. For example "" is a British IBAN for a bank account at the National Westminster Bank. The parts of this IBAN are described below:
The letters in the second row have the following meanings: 

A computer can check an IBAN by changing it into an integer and dividing the number by 97. If the IBAN is valid, the remainder equals 1. The rules for changing the IBAN to an integer are:

For Example check that "codice_1" is a valid IBAN. 

Many computer programs have been written to check whether or not an IBAN is valid. These programs do not check whether or not an IBAN is genuine. They do check that a genuine IBAN has been copied correctly. UNESCO maintains one such program and have made the source code public. It will detect a large number of mistakes that users might make when they are copying a genuine IBAN by hand. These mistakes include: 

The IBAN was developed to make it easier to transfer money from a bank in one EU country to a bank in another EU country. This was important when people bought goods from other countries. 
The rules for the IBAN were drawn up by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 1997. They were revised in 2003 and again in 2007. The rules that were written in 2007 consist of two rule books:
All bank accounts within the European Union must have an IBAN. Bank accounts can also have a domestic bank account identifier. The domestic bank account identifier in the United Kingdom is the sort code and bank account number. During 2014 all banks in Europe that use the euro must start using the IBAN for customer account numbers. They will no longer be allowed to use older national systems.

The IBAN is also used in many developing countries including Brazil, Pakistan. Turkey and many counties in the Middle East.

Yonkers (song)

"Yonkers" is a song by Odd Future's frontman Tyler, The Creator. It is from his first studio album "Goblin". It features hardcore lyrics and also contains insults directed at singers Hayley Williams of the band Paramore, Bruno Mars and rapper B.o.B. This song is the one that Odd Future gained mainstream success with. It was high on the Billboard charts, but lost to Katy Perry's Firework. In response to the insults, B.o.B. made a song entitled "No Future".

Channel Orange

Channel Orange (written as channel, ORANGE) is the first studio album by Frank Ocean. It was released in July 2012 through Def Jam. The cover shows an orange box that is almost full, which is a reference to the summer that Ocean had first fallen in love. It featured the song "Thinkin Bout You" as well as the other successful songs "Lost", "Pyramids", "Sweet Life" and "Super Rich Kids". The lyrics are dealing with Oceans experience with unrequited love, sex, drugs and nostalgia. It won a Grammy Award.

1."Start-0:46
2."Thinkin Bout You"-3:18
3."Fertilizer-0:40

Odd Future Records

Odd Future Records is a record label founded by Tyler The Creator in 2011. It is based on the group Odd Future. It has signed acts such as Odd Future as well as its . It also has signed other acts such as The Jet Of Tommorow and Internet.

HiiiPoWeR

"HiiiPoWeR" is the debut single by Kendrick Lamar. It is a conscious hip hop song. It was released in April 2011 through Top Dawg Entertainment. It was a promotional single that was produced by J.Cole. Its lyrics make references to African-American activists such as Martin Luther King and are about racism and the media. "HiiiPoWeR" was the only single released out of the album "Section.80". The reason why the title has 3 ‘i’s is because it stands for Honor, Respect and Heart according to Lamar. Lamar was influenced by Thug Life, a hip hop group led by Tupac Shakur.

Syrian civil war

The 
Syrian civil war, also known as the Syrian Uprising (), or Syrian Crisis (), is an ongoing armed conflict in the Syrian Arab Republic. The conflict started in 2011 after the Syrian government, led by Bashar al-Assad, violently stopped pro-democracy demonstrations in the city of Daraa, resulting in a deathly struggle between the Syrian regime and multiple opposition groups. Since then, it has developed to be one of the deadliest conflicts in the 21st century. More than 614,000 people have been killed, and more than 5 million have been displaced, forming the largest refugee crisis in the world.

Minority Rule

Syria has a diverse population regarding faith, ethnic and language minorities creates more tension in the country. The country is a Sunni Muslim majority, with Shia sects forming different branches, such as the Alawi. Around 10% of the Syrian population is estimated to belong to the Alawi community. Even though they belong to the broader Shia, they have a secretive and exclusive community. Druze, Kurdish, Christian groups, and other minorities are also found in the country. The fact that a minority group rules a majority also contributed to the growing tension.

Political Instability

In 1943 the newly independent Syria did not have a central figure to lead the country. Provisional governments followed each other while contesting groups tried to rule the country. The Ba'ath Party was constructed around the Nahda a and started a political union with Egypt under the United Arab Republic. In the 1963 coup d'état, the Ba'ath Party targeted the UAR and appointed a new president.

In 1970, Alawi general Hafez al-Assad took control of the country that year with a coup and became president. Hafez al-Assad's regime was supposedly secular, although coming from an Alawi family himself. The growing income gap in society and the stagnant economy fuelled opposition against the regime, particularly among the Sunni groups. He ruled the country for the next 30 years until his passing. In 2000, his son Bashar al-Assad followed him as Syria's president. He promised political and economic reforms that never happened, which only increased the dissatisfaction of the Syrian nation. He strengthened his hold on the government through coercion and symbolism, which resulted in a massive personality cult around him. The government held parades to glorify the leader, which required a need for obedience and affection to the ruler from society regardless of the true feelings and disagreement of the people.

Environmental Issues

Between 2006 and 2010, Syria experienced the worst drought in its history. The drought intensified the already existing water and agricultural problems. It caused huge agricultural failures and livestock mortality. The government's policies contributed to the severity of the drought by exploiting the already limited land and water resources. Approximately 1.5 million people have migrated from rural farming areas to the peripheries of urban centres. Those areas were already burdened by the huge population growth caused by the Iraqi refugees arriving between 2003 and 2007. The drought contributed to the rising food prices and the decline of the country's GDP. Adequate water supply is still a concern in the country.

Socioeconomic issues

In the 1990s and 2000s, Syria's economy was in crisis because, among other economic failures, oil revenue and support from other Arab countries shrunk over the years. As a result, the working classes were impoverished throughout the years, and inequality rates increased. Unemployment rates were high, especially among the youth. The drought took away the source of income for many agrarian Syrians. When villagers relocated to the big cities, they struggled to find employment, which fueled growing resentment. The nation struggled with high inequality and a corrupt government since only the privileged families who were tied to the government profited from privatization. 1.5 million Syrians became internally displaced by drought on top of the 1.5 million Iraqi refugees. By 2010 20% of Syria's population was constituted by IDPs. The country experienced a 50% population increase from 2002 to 2010, which further increased the strain on its resources. This led to illegal settlements, overcrowding, and increase in crime. The government neglected these problems, which grew the people's frustration. Most importantly, Syrian citizens were fed up with the political oppression by Assad's regime.

Arab Spring

The Syrian uprising that followed was part of the Arab spring. In other Arab countries before 2011, discontent was also rising about the current political and economic environment. In December 2010, a Tunisian man named Mohamed Bouazizi set himself on fire after being repeatedly mistreated by government officials. This led to considerable civil unrest in the country and eventually to mass demonstrations. The Tunisian president, Ben Ali, eventually resigned and fled. Surrounding Arab countries followed and in many countries, the people started demonstrating, demanding political change. It did not take long for the Syrian people to follow these examples.

The Syrian civil war started on 15 March 2011 with demonstrations in Daraa, demanding the Ba'ath government to resign and stop Assad's authoritarian rule. These demonstrations resulted from rising discontent among Syrian citizens regarding what Syria had become under the regime of President Assad. In March 2011, children between 10 and 15 wrote antiregime graffiti on a wall saying, "It's your turn, Doctor". The regime quickly arrested these children and tortured them in prison. Consequently, demonstrations started to erupt in Daraa, demanding the immediate release of these children. The regime tortured to death one of the 13-year-old boys they captured. His name was Hamza al-Khatib, and he became one of the early symbols of the brutal oppression the nation is fighting against. The demonstrations in Daraa escalated after the Syrian military started using water cannons, tear gas, and live bullets against the protesters. The Syrian regime responded with increasingly more violence.

Bashar Al-Asad spoke in front of the Parliament, which was broadcasted on television after the first demonstrations and claimed that the protesters were trying to destroy Syria and "enforce an Israeli agenda." Consequently, demonstrations spread across the country, reaching Aleppo, the second-largest city in Syria, resulting in the killing and detention of hundreds of protestors. This resulted in the beginning of an armed insurgency, starting with forming of the Free Syrian Army in July 2011, consisting of defected army soldiers and civilian volunteers. Battles took place in many towns and cities across the country. The United States imposed economic sanctions on Syria two months after the demonstrations started. As the military opposition became stronger and more organized, the United Nations declared the Syrian uprising a civil war in December 2011.

Firstly, the most important actor in the Syrian civil war is the Syrian Armed Forces, under the control of the Syrian government and Bashar al-Assad. They are fighting in support of Assad's regime and against the armed opposition forces. Both the United Nations Human Rights Council and the Syrian Network for Human Rights have concluded that the Syrian Armed Forces are guilty of the most and worst human rights abuses. Following huge amounts of defections, the Syrian Armed Forces have since late 2015 depended largely on hired militias and volunteers from outside of Syria.

Secondly, the opposition forces consist of a big number of factions, with the Free Syrian Army as an important coalition of several of these militias. The Free Syrian Army was founded by defecting Syrian Army officers with the goal to protect civilians and to destroy the Syrian government. It claimed to be "the military wing of the Syrian opposition". Between 2011 and 2015, the Free Syrian Army lost most of its influence because of a lack of funding, fighting and rival Islamist groups. After an intervention by the Turkish military in 2016, most of the Free Syrian Army became the Syrian National Army, also known as the Turkish-backed Free Syrian Army. The Syrian National Army became a coalition of opposition forces, coordinated and funded by Turkey. The goals of the Syrian National Army are to counter Syrian government forces, the Syrian Democratic Forces and Islamist extremist forces, including the Islamic State and Hay'at-Tahrir al-Sham.

Thirdly, the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) is a military alliance governing the self-declared Autonomous Administration in North and East Syria. The main goal is to establish a democratic and non-religious system in Syria. Therefore, they have mostly been fighting ISIL together with Western countries. Furthermore, they are opposed to the Syrian National Army, as the Turkish forces consider the Kurdish leadership of the SDF a terrorist organization and actively fight them.

Fourthly, numerous Islamist groups have been active in the Syrian Civil War. For example, in late 2011 the Islamist group al-Nusra Front began to have a bigger role in the forces. However, the most influential and effective Islamist group has been the Islamic State (ISIL), also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). They emerged in April of 2013 and as of 2014, they effectively were in control of 30% of Syria and 40% of Iraq. In July of 2014 they changed their name to simply Islamic State. ISIL has been fought by the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army, the Syrian Democratic Forces, the Syrian government forces and a US-led coalition of Western states. Consequently, by 2017 it had lost 95% of its territory and in 2018 it was declared officially defeated by the United States. This seems not to be entirely true, as more recent news has shown that IS is making a comeback. In 2022, already several attacks claimed by the Islamic State have been documented. ISIL has been widely known for its terroristic regime, including many human rights abuses, such as mass public executions and torture. The group attracted many young Islamists from all over the world due to their anti-western and extremist Islamic attitude. Consequently, they have also done terrorist attacks in the West, which is why the West has been so focused on actively fighting IS.

By July 2013, the Syrian government controlled approximately 30–40 percent of the country's territory and 60 percent of the Syrian population. In the beginning of 2022, the Assad regime is back to controlling more than 63% of Syrian territory, while the opposition forces control about 11% and the Syrian Democratic forces around 26%.

Critics argue that Western intervention at the time had used too much of an optimistic approach. Most Western politicians thought President Assad and his regime would fall within a year. They completely underestimated the strength of his regime. This is why the West did not intervene early on in the conflict. Only when the Islamic State gained territory did the West become more actively engaged in the conflict because this threatened their national security. However, there was never a defined plan, only the wish to remove the president and his current regime at the time from power. Russia and China, on the other hand, were always more actively engaged in the conflict, supporting the Syrian regime.

Currently, the war cannot simply be described as a domestic two-sided war but must be described as several overlapping proxy wars. The first one of these is between the United States and Russia. Since 2015, Russia has been backing the Syrian government. The main reason for this is that stability in the region will make it easier for Russia to exert its influence. Furthermore, it is a perfect opportunity to display Russia's military capabilities. On the other hand, the United States and NATO are partly involved in the war to counter this Russian influence in the MENA region.

The second proxy war is between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Iran has supported the Syrian government since the start of the conflict. The reasons for this are that Iran and Syria have long been allies, and the survival of the Syrian regime is essential for Iran's geopolitical interests.  Iran has supported the Syrian regime by providing military supplies, helping pro-Assad militias and sending Hezbollah troops. Saudi Arabia, on the other hand, has since 2012 been funding and arming the rebels, together with Qatar.  The main reason for this is to counter Iranian power and achieve regional dominance.

Moreover, Turkey is an essential foreign actor in the war. Turkey aims to prevent the Syrian Democratic Forces from successfully creating an independent state. As the leadership of the SDF, the Peoples Defense Unit (YPG), is largely Kurdish, creating an independent state would set an example for Kurds in Turkey. This would threaten Turkey's territorial integrity.  Furthermore, Turkey considers the YPG to be a terrorist organization. Turkey has been a dominant force in Northern Syria throughout the war, providing the opposition with military aid, building governance institutions and funding infrastructure projects.

Several cease-fire attempts were made during the civil war. The first one was by Kofi Annan, who worked as the representative of the United Arab League. He set out a peace plan, but even after he met with Bashar al-Assad, the fighting continued. The plan for a cease-fire was disregarded. At the time, the casualties already included 17,000 deaths. Eleven thousand nine hundred were civilians, 900 military defectors and 4,350 government soldiers. Shortly after the failure of the peace plan, Annan urged Iran to take a greater role in helping to stop the war. The United Kingdom and France have also been significant actors in the conflict, as they have been providing aid to several moderate opposition forces. Turkey and Iran also claimed to have recruited Pakistani mercenaries to fight for opposing sides, which could have also resulted in them fighting each other.

Several institutions have documented many grave human rights violations throughout the conflict, including Human Rights Watch, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Syrian Network for Human Rights. International organizations accused both government and opposition forces of violating human rights. According to the UN, the Syrian government carried out most of the abuses.

According to the United Nations, as of 2022, more than 12 million Syrians will be living in food insecurity, and more than 14.6 million Syrians will be in need of humanitarian assistance. Millions of citizens are still short of electricity, food and drinking water. This is worsened by Russia's invasion of Ukraine in March of 2022, which hinders essential food imports. Of the 14.6 million Syrians that are in need of humanitarian assistance, 1.48 million people are in catastrophic need, claims the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  Above all that, the economic toll of the war has resulted in 90% of Syrians living under the poverty line as of 2022. The United Nations say the humanitarian crisis is worsening in 2022, and a peace agreement is far from reaching. However, at the Brussels Conference in 2022, international donors have agreed to provide Syria with 6.7 billion USD for support and reconstruction.

Furthermore, the opposition and the government forces are guilty of committing acts that amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity. The Syrian-Russian alliance is guilty of most human rights violations, primarily through indiscriminate attacks on civilian infrastructure. However, the US-led coalition is also guilty of using indiscriminate weapons in much smaller numbers. Also, Syrian government forces and militias continue to arbitrarily detain, torture, execute and make Syrian civilians disappear. Since the beginning of the war, almost 15 000 Syrians have died of torture, and 100 000 Syrians are still missing.

Also, in 2013 the Syrian regime allegedly used chemical weapons, a nerve agent called sarin. This drew attention from the international community. The US and Russia made Syria sign the Chemical Weapons Convention, which forbids the use of chemical weapons. The government reportedly surrendered their chemical weapons in 2014. In 2017, the town of Khan Shaykhun was hit by another sarin attack, which killed 90 people, and 30 of them were children.

According to the latest data from the Syrian Network for Human Rights (2022), well over 225,000 civilians have been killed since the start of the conflict, among which around 30,000 are children. For around 200 000 of these civilian deaths are by the Syrian military. According to the UN Human Rights Council, the total death toll of the Syrian civil war is around 350 000, although this is almost certainly an undercount of the actual death toll. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights has claimed to have documented a much higher death toll, arguing that 610 000 people died since the start of the conflict, of which they have already identified and documented 500 000.  

According to the UN Refugee Agency, 6.6 million Syrians have fled the country since 2011, and 6.7 million people are internally displaced. Most went to neighbouring countries, such as Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and Iraq, which were the most affected; however, millions of Syrians also seeked refuge in Europe. Two significant migration flows were through Turkey and the Balkans, until the EU border in Hungary, and from the coast of Africa into southern Europe. Many people went through dangerous boat trips in the Mediterranean, leading to many drownings. This became an important point of discussion for the European Union, with some countries more and others less welcoming to receiving these refugees.


Art music

Art music is a term which includes classical music, and various kinds of serious modern music. Other terms for it are serious music, and legitimate music.

The need for such terms came with the modern movement in the arts. Clearly the music of, say, Schonberg was serious, bur not classical in the sense of Bach and Beethoven. Stravinsky's music was a bridge between the two genres. It was classical music in part, and touched with African-influenced syncopations and dischords. So terms like "art music" and "modern music" were used by art critics and academics in their writing.

Art music can be defined as serious music with a written musical tradition. The term art music is used often and has a clear meaning. Musicologist Philip Tagg calls it one part of an clear and unquestioned "triangle consisting of 'folk', 'art' and 'popular' musics". He explains that each of these three is distinguishable from the others according to certain criteria. The main tradition in the Western world is usually called classical music. In this regard, it is frequently used as a contrasting term to popular music and traditional or folk music.

Soap&amp;Skin

Soap&Skin (born 5 April 1990) is an Austrian singer. Her real name is Anja Franziska Plaschg. She plays piano and sings in English and sometimes German. She has released two albums.

Plaschg grew up in a village called Gnas. She started playing piano when she was six. When she was fourteen she started playing violin.

In 2008 she released an EP called "Untitled".

In 2009 she released her first album, "Lovetune for Vacuum". Pitchfork gave it a good rating, 7.3. It was No.5 in the Austrian chart.

In 2010, "Brother of Sleep" and "Marche Funèbre", songs from "Lovetune for Vacuum", were used in the soundtrack for the movie "War Games: At the End of the Day".

In 2011 she sung on the song "Goodbye" on Apparat's album "The Devil's Walk". The song was played in the last episode of Season 4 of "Breaking Bad".

In February 2012 she made a chocolate for Zotter. It has cumin, red wine, and pig's blood.

She released her second album "Narrow" in March 2012. It reached No.1 in the Austrian chart. A BBC music critic compared its sound to that of Bjork. NME gave it 7/10.

In 2012 she acted in a film for the first time. The film is called "Stilleben". She plays a prostitute called Carmen.

On March 11 2013 "Sugarbread", Soap&Skin's second EP, was released. It has three songs. The second song, "Me and the Devil", is a Robert Johnson cover. Drowned in Sound gave "Sugarbread" 7/10.


Dutch resistance

The Dutch resistance was a movement of Dutch people who fought against the German occupation of the Netherlands during World War II. They fought the Nazis in many different ways, mostly without using violence. The resistance helped to hide 300,000 people in the autumn of 1944.

Dutch resistance developed slowly. In 1941, Dutch people organized a strike, called the February strike, to protest against the Nazis deporting over 400 Jews. This encouraged the resistance. The Dutch communists set up a system of cells (small groups of resistance members). Some other very amateur groups also formed, like De Geuzen, set up by Bernard IJzerdraat. Some military groups started, such as the Ordedienst ('order service'). Most groups were discovered by the Nazis during the first two years of the war.

Dutch resistance groups gathered counterintelligence (information about the Nazis), committed sabotage, and formed communications networks. This helped the Allied forces, beginning in 1944 and continuing until the Netherlands was liberated. About 75% (105,000 out of 140,000) of Dutch Jews were killed in the Holocaust, most of them murdered in Nazi death camps. A number of resistance groups specialized in saving Jewish children. Somewhere between 215 and 500 Dutch Romanis were also killed by the Nazis.

Besides armed resistance, other forms of resistance to the Nazi German occupation were carried out by the Dutch. These were important options for those who opposed the Nazis but chose not to use weapons. Nonviolent resistance included spying, going into hiding and aiding fugitives, not following Nazi rules, attending public protests, publishing illegal papers, and sabotage (destroying) companies aiding the war effort. Thousands were arrested by the Nazis and jailed for months, tortured, sent to concentration camps, or killed.

The Dutch February Strike of 1941, protesting the deportation of Jews from the Netherlands, was the only such strike in Nazi-occupied Europe. 

After the war, the Netherlands created and awarded a medal for bravery called the Resistance Cross. Of the 95 people who received it, 93 had been killed.

Before the Germans invaded, the Netherlands were neutral. The Dutch had not fought in a war with any European nation since 1830. During World War I, the Netherlands were not invaded by Germany. The German ex-Kaiser even fled to the Netherlands in 1918. Because of this, the German invasion in World War II was a great shock. The Netherlands ordered its army to get ready in September 1939. Even though Netherlands was still neutral, and had not gotten involved with any side during World War II, the country's large merchant fleet was attacked by the Germans after the beginning of World War II. The Nazis sank the Dutch passenger ship SS "Simon Bolivar" in November 1939, killing 84 people. This shocked the Netherlands. This was not the only Dutch ship that was destroyed.

On 10 May 1940, German troops started to attack the Netherlands. The Germans invaded with about 750,000 men. This was three times the size of the Dutch army. The Germans invaded with 1,100 planes (the Dutch army had 125) and six armoured trains. They destroyed 80% of the Dutch military aircraft by bombing, although the Germans did lose over 500 planes in the attack.

The Nazis tried the first large-scale paratroop attack in history, which failed. The Dutch retook control of the three airfields the Germans had captured. The Dutch army owned only one tank(a Renault ft-17 but didn’t use it.

Major areas of military resistance were in: 

After four days, the Germans had invaded 70% of the country. Adolf Hitler ordered Rotterdam to be destroyed. Nazi bombing left about 85,000 Dutch civilians homeless. The Dutch surrendered.

About 2,000 Dutch soldiers died fighting the Nazi invasion. So did at least 800 civilians, who died in Rotterdam.

The Nazis' goal was to make the Dutch into Nazis. The country's wide-open areas made it difficult to hide illegal activities - unlike, for example, the "Maquis" in France, who had many hiding places.
The first German round-up of Jews in February 1941 led to the first general strike against the Germans.

Dutch social democrats, Catholics, and communists started the resistance movement. At first, if the Germans discovered people were involved in the resistance, they put them in jail. However, if a person was a member of an armed or military group, the Nazis could send them to concentration camps. After mid-1944, Hitler ordered his soldiers to shoot all resistance members. The Nazis also did revenge attacks against civilians, where they killed innocent civilians after resistance activities happened.
The Nazis deported the Dutch Jews to concentration and extermination camps. They started building fortifications along the coast and constructed 30 airfields. They forced adult males between 18 and 45 to work in German factories or on public work projects. In 1944, most trains were sent to Germany and 550,000 Dutch people were sent to Germany as laborers. Resistance became better organized and more forceful. The resistance killed high-ranking Dutch officials, such as General Seyffardt.

In the Netherlands, the Germans managed to kill many Jews.

On 25 February 1941, the Communist Party of the Netherlands called for a general strike, the 'February Strike'. German troops reacted by firing on unarmed crowds, and taking many prisoners. However, the strike was important because resistance against the Nazi occupation got stronger afterward.

Dutch resistance was usually secret. Resistance in the Netherlands included sabotage (like cutting phone lines, distributing anti-German leaflets, or tearing down posters). Some small groups collected intelligence and published underground papers such as "De Waarheid", "Trouw", "Vrij Nederland", and "Het Parool." They also sabotaged phone lines.

Another important resistance activity was hiding Jewish families like Anne Frank's, resistance fighters, men and Allied aircrew. The resistance hid over 300,000 people from the Nazis.




Tyler, the Creator

Tyler Gregory Okonma, better known by his stage name Tyler, the Creator, is an American rapper and record producer. He is best known for creating the hip-hop collective Odd Future, in addition to a successful solo career. His biggest solo hits so far are "Yonkers" (2010), "See You Again" (2017), and “EARFQUAKE” (2019).

Kika

Kika is a 1993 comedy movie. The title character gets involved in relationships with different men and is assaulted several times. One of these assaults is by a pornographic movie actor with a very low IQ. He assaults Kika with serious force and is then pulled from her by two unknown people.

The movie originally received an NC-17 just before its release in the United States half a year after completion. The rating, though, was surrendered, and "Kika" was then released unrated.

Maurice Vachon

Maurice Vachon (September 14, 1929 – November 21, 2013) was a Canadian professional wrestler. He is best known under his ring name, "Mad Dog" Vachon

He was known for competing in American Wrestling Association (AWA) where he played one of the all-time great heels. He spent four decades wrestling and retired in 1986. He is a member of the Vachon wrestling family with his brother Paul and sister Vivian Vachon, and the uncle of wrestler Luna Vachon. He died on November 21, 2013.

He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Pat Patterson in 2010.



Kearney, Nebraska

Kearney is a city in Nebraska, United States. It is in the south-central part of Nebraska. The city began in the late 19th century. The previous name of the city was Dobytown, but the area was later renamed "Kearney". 

The 2020 Census recorded the population of Kearney at 33,790. The city has grown in recent years.

Pavel Bobek

Pavel Bobek (16 September 1937 − 20 November 2013) was a Czech singer. He worked with many musical artists such as Lou Reed, Johnny Cash, Frank Zappa, Kenny Rogers, and John Denver.

Bobek was born on 16 September 1937 in Prague, Czechoslovakia. He studied to become an architect. Bobek died on 20 November 2013 from a long illness in Prague, Czech Republic, aged 76.

Hell house

Hell houses are attractions normally run by Christian churches. They show sin, the torture of the damned in hell, and usually end with a depiction of heaven. They are normally run on Halloween.

A hell house is like a haunted house attraction. It is a building used for actors attempting to frighten people with gruesome exhibits and scenes. They are presented as a series of short vignettes with a guide. Unlike haunted houses, hell houses focus on the effects of sin or the fate of unrepentant sinners in the afterlife. They occur during the month of October to take advantage of the similarities between hell houses and haunted houses.

Field Mob

Field Mob is an American hip hop duo from Albany, Georgia. The members of the group are Shawn Timothy "Shawn Jay" Johnson and Darion "Smoke" Crawford. 

Crooks, South Dakota

Crooks is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,362 people lived there at the 2020 census.


Survivor Series (2002)

Survivor Series (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 17, 2002 at Madison Square Garden in New York City. It was the sixteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


Cura Mori District

Cura Mori District is one of nine districts of the province Piura in Peru.

International Association of Fire Fighters

International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF) is an international organization dedicated to the firefighters. It was established in 1918 in the United States. The IAFF is a part of the AFL-CIO in the United States and the Canadian Labour Congress in Canada. They are based in Washington, DC.


Afternoon (disambiguation)

Afternoon may mean:

Society for American City and Regional Planning History

The Society for American City and Regional Planning History (SACRPH) is an American non-profit organization for the history of urban planning. It was established in 1986 in Ohio, United States. The organization's members includes urban planners, architects, historians, environmentalists, landscape designers, preservationists, students and scholars from across the country and around the world. The organization also publishes books and the "Journal of Planning History". It has award ceremonies and gives advice to governments about architecture and urban conservation.



Winx Club: The Secret of the Lost Kingdom

Winx Club: The Secret of the Lost Kingdom is an animated movie based on the television series "Winx Club". The story poola continues from after the events of the first three seasons. It is an Italian movie. It was first shown on November 30, 2007 in Italian cinemas.

Indian gooseberry

The Indian gooseberry is a deciduous tree of the family Phyllanthaceae. It is known for its edible fruit of the same name.

Survivor Series (2001)

Survivor Series (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 18, 2001 at Greensboro Coliseum in Greensboro, North Carolina. It was the fifteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.


Survivor Series (2000)

Survivor Series (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 19, 2000 at Ice Palace in Tampa, Florida. It was the fourteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.


Whitehorse

Whitehorse is the capital of Yukon, Canada. It is the also largest city in northern Canada. It is on the Alaska Highway and the Yukon River.

The city was inhabited by First Nations for thousands of years. 


The End of the World

"The End of the World" is a song about feeling sad and breakups. The song was released in late 1962, though it did not become a hit until spring of the following year. The song was first performed by Skeeter Davis. It was later recorded by other artists including Nancy Sinatra, Brenda Lee, Johnny Mathis, Loretta Lynn and Anne Murray. In several cases the song had a strong chart play and performance in the United States, United Kingdom and several other areas.

Baltic, South Dakota

Baltic is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,246 people lived there at the 2020 census. Baltic became a city in 1907.

Janet Mock

Janet Mock (born 1984 in Honolulu, Hawaii) is an American writer and activist for transgender rights.

In 2012 she started #GirlsLikeUs. It is a Twitter campaign for transgender women. In 2012's Black History Month, "The Grio" put her in their list of most influential people in the African-American community. Until 2012, Mock was a journalist for "People" magazine. 

In March and April 2013, she was a guest on "The Melissa Harris-Perry Show" on MSNBC. In April 2013 We Happy Trans and This Is H.O.W released the first Trans 100 list. Trans 100 is a list of one hundred American transgender activists. Mock was on the list. In June 2013 "The Out List", a documentary about LGBT Americans, was released. Mock was in it.

Her first book, "", was published February 4, 2014. Mock was on "Piers Morgan Tonight" on the day of the book's release. She was on the show again on February 5.

She lives in New York City with her boyfriend Aaron Tredwell.

In 2011, Mock wrote an article talking about being transgender for "Marie Claire". Before this people did not know that she was born male. That year she made a video for Dan Savage's It Gets Better Project.


Bohol (province)

The Province of Bohol (; ) is an island province of the Philippines in the Central Visayas region, consisting of one main island, Bohol, and more than 70 smaller islands. Its capital is Tagbilaran.

The province is a popular place among tourists because of its beaches and resorts. The Chocolate Hills, many small hills of limestone formations, is the most popular attraction. There are many hotels in the southern beaches.

It is the home province of Carlos P. Garcia, the eighth president of the Republic of the Philippines (1957–1961) who was born in Talibon.

The people of Bohol are said to be the descendants of a group of inhabitants who settled in the Philippines called "pintados" or "tattooed ones".

The earliest significant contact of the island with Spain occurred in 1565. In that year, a Spanish explorer named Miguel López de Legazpi came to Bohol looking for spices and gold. He made a peace pact with Datu Sikatuna in a place called Bool. This pact was signed with a blood pact between the two men. This event, called the "Sandugo" ("one blood"), is celebrated in Bohol every year during the Sandugo Festival. The "Sandugo" or blood compact is also depicted on Bohol's provincial flag and the Bohol provincial seal.

Bohol was administered as a "residencia" of Cebu. It became a separate politico-military province on July 22, 1854 together with Siquijor. A census in 1879 found Bohol with a population of 253,103 distributed among 34 municipalities.

The Bohol province was created on March 10, 1917.

The Bohol island has many small hills. There are two mountain ranges that run roughly parallel on the northwest and the southeast. The main mountain range of the island is "Sierra Bullones" on the southeast, along the south coast. It begins near Loboc, goes to the east and then to the northeast to end near Candijay. The highest point of this range and in the entire province is Mount Mayana, high.

A plateau in the interior plateau of the island has many limestone hills. In Carmen, Batuan and Sagbayan, these hills form near perfect cones in great numbers and are known as the Chocolate Hills.

The are many white sandy beaches along the coast of the main island and in other islands of the province. The most well known of these beaches are in Panglao Island, and there, numerous islets have similar, yet untouched and beautiful beaches.

The Panglao island is relatively flat with two hills. The island is known for its beautiful beaches, and the most famous of these is "Alona Beach" on the south side of the island.

The Lapinig island is to the northeast of the Bohol island, in front of the municipality of Pres. Carlos P. Garcia. The island is flat with hills in the middle to a height of .

There are four main rivers that flow through Bohol:

Numerous waterfalls and caves are scattered across the island, including the beautiful "Mag-Aso" falls in Antequera.

The islands surrounding mainland Bohol that are part of the province of Bohol are:
Bohol has, like the rest of the Philippines, a tropical climate. The average temperature is high and the humidity is also high. The dry and the wet seasons are very similar. The province is in the path of typhoons; it can be affected by them but is somewhat protected by the mountains of surrounding islands, as Leyte, Samar and Mindanao. The northeast monsoon ("Amihan") is from November to April and the average temperatures are slightly lower than the temperatures during the southwest monsoon ("Habagat"), from August to October.

The main language spoken in Bohol is Boholano, a dialect of Cebuano. In addition, Tagalog and English are also spoken by many people.

The majority of the population of Bohol is Roman Catholic. Protestants and Iglesia ni Cristo form a large part of the remainder.

The Bohol province had a population, in 2010, of 1,255,128, for a population density of inhabitants/km.

The municipality with more people living in is the capital, Tagbilaran (96,792), followed by Ubay (68,578) and Talibon (61,373).

The province of Bohol is divided into 47 municipalities and 1 city.It has 1,109 barangays.


Chittenden County, Vermont

Chittenden is a county in Vermont in the United States. The county seat is Burlington. In the 2020 count, 168,323 people lived in this county.

Chemung County, New York

Chemung is a county of New York in the United States. The county seat is Elmira. In the 2020 count, 84,148 people lived in this county.

Concordia Parish, Louisiana

Concordia is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Vidalia. In the 2020 count, 18,687 people lived in this parish.

Jackson Parish, Louisiana

Jackson is a parish of Louisiana. The parish seat is Jonesboro. In the 2020 count, 15,031 people lived in this parish.

Webster Parish, Louisiana

Webster Parish (French: "Paroisse de Webster") is a parish located in the northwestern section of the U.S. state of Louisiana. 
The seat of the parish is Minden.

As of the 2020 census, the Webster Parish population was 36,967.

Brewster County, Texas

Brewster County is a county in the state of Texas in the United States. In 2020, 9,546 people lived there. The county seat is Alpine. The county was named for Colonel Henry Percy Brewster, who was Secretary of War for the Republic of Texas.

La Salle Parish, Louisiana

LaSalle is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Jena. In the 2020 count, 14,791 people lived in this parish.

Avoyelles Parish, Louisiana

Avoyelles is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Marksville. In the 2020 count, 57,576 people lived in this parish.

Allen Parish, Louisiana

Allen is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Oberlin. As of the 2020 Census, 22,750 people lived in this parish.

Bienville Parish, Louisiana

Bienville is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Arcadia. In the 2020 count, 12,981 people lived in this parish.

Arcadia, Louisiana

Arcadia is the parish seat of Bienville Parish, Louisiana, United States. It is the most populous municipality in Bienville Parish.

Wilfried Martens

Wilfried Achiel Emma Martens (19 April 1936 – 9 October 2013) was a Belgian politician.

He was born in Sleidinge (East Flanders). During his political career, Martens served as the Prime Minister of Belgium from 3 April 1979 to 6 April 1981 and 17 December 1981 to 7 March 1992.

Martens, who had pancreatic cancer, died by euthanasia on 9 October 2013, at his home in Lokeren. He was 77.


Piet de Jong

Petrus Jozef Sietse "Piet" de Jong (April 3, 1915 – July 27, 2016) was a Dutch politician. He was for the Catholic People's Party (KVP) now merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA).

Petrus Josef Sietse de Jong was born on April 3, 1915 in Apeldoorn in the Netherlands Province of Gelderland. He studied at the Royal Netherlands Navy as a midshipman in 1931 and soon attended the Royal Netherlands Naval College in Den Helder.

He served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from April 5, 1967 until July 6, 1971.

De Jong is known for his dry wit and quick remarks. His abilities as a team leader were greatly admired. The Cabinet De Jong was the first cabinet after World War II that completed a full term without any internal conflicts.

de Jong was married to Anneke Bartels from 1947 until her death in 2010. They had three children. He lived at The Hague. de Jong died at his The Hague home from natural causes on July 27, 2016, aged 101.

Until his death in July 2016, he was the oldest and earliest serving former Prime Minister of the Netherlands and the oldest living state leader at the age of 101. Over forty years after he left office, De Jong was comment on political affairs as an elder statesman.


Howard Cooke

Sir Howard Felix Hanlan Cooke, ON, GCMG, GCVO, CD, K.St.J (13 November 1915 – 11 July 2014) was the Governor-General of Jamaica from 1 August 1991 until 15 February 2006 when he became the first governor-general to invest his own successor, Professor Kenneth Octavius Hall. He was styled His Excellency while in office as governor-general.

Đỗ Mười

Đỗ Mười (2 February 1917 – 1 October 2018) was a Vietnamese communist politician. He served as the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam from 27 June 1991 through 29 December 1997.

Muoi was born on 2 February 1917 in Dong Phu, Thanh Trì, Hanoi as Nguyễn Duy Cống. He turned 100 in 2017.

Until October 2018, he was the oldest and earliest serving former Prime Minister of Vietnam and the oldest living state leader at the age of 101.

On April 12, 2018, Đỗ Mười was admitted to the Central Military Hospital 108 in Hanoi. He died on October 1, 2018 at the age of 101, after a long period of illness.


Harold Holzer

Harold Holzer (born February 10, 1949 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American historian and writer. He is known for being an educator of the life of Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War era. He was the script consultant to the Steven Spielberg movie, "Lincoln". Holzer is the chairman of the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission.


Constantine Mitsotakis

Constantine Mitsotakis or Konstantinos Mitsotakis (18 October 1918 – 29 May 2017) was a Greek politician. He is the former Prime Minister of Greece from 11 April 1990 through 13 October 1993.

He was born in Chania, Crete, to a political family: his father and grandfathers were members of parliament, and the great liberal leader Eleftherios Venizelos was his uncle. He graduated in law and economics from the University of Athens.

He was married to Marika Mitsotakis (née Giannoukou) from 1953 until her death on 6 May 2012. They had four children.

In January 2004 Mitsotakis announced that he would retire from Parliament at the 7 March election, 56 years after his first election.

Mitsotakis died on 29 May 2017 in Athens, aged 98.


Patricio Aylwin

Patricio Aylwin Azócar (November 26, 1918 – April 19, 2016) was a Chilean politician. He served as President of Chile from March 11, 1990 through March 11, 1994. He was the first president of Chile after democracy was restored in 1990. He was also a lawyer and former senator.

Aylwin was born in Viña del Mar, Chile on November 26, 1918. He married Leonor Oyarzún in 1948. They had five children. Aylwin died on April 19, 2016 at his home in Santiago from respiratory failure complicated from a fall, at the age of 97.


Leonor Oyarzún

Leonor Oyarzún Ivanovic (10 March 1919 – 21 January 2022) was the First Lady of Chile from 1990 until 1994. She was the wife of former President Patricio Aylwin.

Oyarzún was born on 1919 in Temuco. She married Aylwin on 29 September 1948 and they had five children. They had 14 grandchildren (among them, telenovela actress Paz Bascuñán). Aylwin died in April 2016. 

Oyarzún turned 100 in March 2019. She died on 21 January 2022 in Santiago de Chile, aged 102.

Émile Derlin Zinsou

Émile Derlin Zinsou (23 March 1918 in Ouidah – 28 July 2016 in Cotonou) was an Beninese politician. Zinsou served as the President of Benin from 17 July 1968 until 10 December 1969. He was previously Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1962 to 1963 and again from 1965 to 1967. He was said to have opposed the one-party Marxist policies of Mathieu Kérékou, who ruled Benin from 1972 to 1990.

Zinsou died on 28 July 2016, aged 98.


Hyun Soong-jong

Hyun Soong-jong (February 26 (Lunar January 26), 1919 – May 25, 2020) was a South Korean politician. He served as Prime Minister from October 1992 through 1993. He was nominated by then-President of South Korea Roh Tae-woo.

Soong-jung died on May 25, 2020 at the age of 101. At the time of his death, he was the oldest known living former state leader. Mustafa Ben Halim succeeded him with this distinction

Mohammed Karim Lamrani

Mohammed Karim Lamrani (1 May 1919 – 20 September 2018) was the Prime Minister of Morocco three times. Lamrani was one of the oldest former living world leaders until his death. 

Lamrani was born in Fes on 1 May 1919.

Lamrani served as the Prime Minister three times: from 6 August 1971 to 2 November 1972, then from 30 November 1983 and 30 September 1986 and lastly from 11 August 1992 to 25 May 1994. 

Lamrani died on 20 September 2018 at the age of 99.

Mitja Ribičič

Mitja Ribičič (19 May 1919 – 28 November 2013) was a Slovenian former politician.

He was the only Slovenian prime minister of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1969–1971). Between 1945 and 1957, he was at the top of the repressive system in Slovenia, and has been accused of violations of human rights and crimes against humanity.

He was born in a Slovene-speaking family in Trieste, Italy on 19 May 1919. Ribičič died on 28 November 2013 in Ljubljana, Republic of Slovenia, aged 94.


CrazySexyCool: The TLC Story

CrazySexyCool: The TLC Story is a television movie about the R&B/hip hop group TLC. The title comes from the group's second album, "CrazySexyCool". It aired on VH1 on October 21, 2003.

The film got 4.5 million viewers when it aired on VH1, making it the highest-rated television movie of 2013, and the highest-rated television movie in VH1 history.


Daniel (mountain)

Daniel is the highest peak of the Ammergau Alps. It is above sea level. It is in Tyrol, Austria above the villages Ehrwald and Leermoos. It is near two other peaks, Upsspitze and Hochschrutte.

The climb to Mount Daniel first goes to Tuftalm, a small lodge. From there, there are two paths to Mount Daniel, a easier one, and a more difficult one. Tuftalm is above Lermoos. To get there there is a path from Erwhald or from Lermoos.

U Can't Touch This

"U Can't Touch This" is a song by MC Hammer. It is from his 1990 album "Please Hammer, Don't Hurt 'Em". It was released on January 13, 1990. This song is considered to be his signature song. It is one of his most popular songs.


TNA Bound for Glory

Bound for Glory is a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by Impact Wrestling, which used to be called Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in October and is similar to their rival WWE's WrestleMania. The first Bound for Glory event took place on October 23, 2005 at the TNA Impact! Zone in Orlando, Florida.


Jerusalem Nature Museum

The Jerusalem Nature Museum is a children's museum dedicated to nature. It was established in 1962 in the German Colony in Jerusalem.


Bloomfield Science Museum

The Bloomfield Science Museum in Jerusalem is a museum about science for children located in Givat Ram, Jerusalem. It was established in 1992.


ISOCARP

The International Society of City and Regional Planners (ISOCARP) is an international association of people who work in urban planning. It was created in 1965. It now has members from more than 80 countries. ISOCARP is formally recognised by the United Nations and Council of Europe. It works with UNESCO. It is not under the control of any government.


Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk

The Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk or Sikorsky S-70 is a U.S. military helicopter. It is used by the U.S. Army as a standard assault helicopter. It replaced the Bell UH-1 Iroquois. Sikorsky SH-60 Seahawk and Sikorsky VH-60N White Hawk are specialized variants of it.


Journal of Planning History

The Journal of Planning History is an academic journal about urban planning and design. It is published in the United States by the Society for American City and Regional Planning History. A new issue is published four times each year.


Sherman, South Dakota

Sherman is a town in the far eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 81 people lived there at the 2020 census. Sherman became a town in 1888.

Worksop

Worksop is a town in Nottingamshire, England. It is the biggest town in the district of Bassetlaw. Worksop is located on the River Ryton, north of Sherwood Forest. Around 39,800 people live in the town.

Hudson, South Dakota

Hudson is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Lincoln County, and 311 people lived there at the 2020 census. People first started to live in Hudson in 1868.

[[Category:1860s establishments in Dakota Territory]
TNA Lockdown

Lockdown was a yearly pay-per-view made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in April. The first Lockdown event took place on April 24, 2005 at the TNA Impact! Zone in Orlando, Florida. The final Lockdown took place on February 23, 2016 at the Wembley Arena in London, England.

The event features a Six Sides of Steel cage when the ring still had 6 sides. They switched to a normal, 4-sided steel cage in 2010. They also have gimmick matches such as the "Lethal Lockdown" (which is a variant of the WarGames match that was popularized in World Championship Wrestling), the "Xscape match" which is a multi-competitor elimination cage match where the last two remaining competitors must climb over or use the door to escape the cage, and the "Queen of the Cage match" which featured TNA Knockouts.


Lacuna Coil

Lacuna Coil is an Italian gothic metal band. They started in 1994 in Milan with the name Sleep of Right. Then they changed their name to Ethereal in 1997. They found that there was already a band with that name. So they changed their name to Lacuna Coil that year. They are known for making music with male and female vocal harmonies. Cristina Scabbia joined the band in 1996. She does the main vocals with Andrea Ferro. The band has released seven albums.


Area code 318

Area code 318 is a telephone area code that covers northern and central Louisiana.

its headquarters and largest city in Shreveport, is the parish seat of Caddo Parish

Stan (song)

"Stan" is the third single from "The Marshall Mathers LP", Eminem's third album. It was No. 1 in the UK and Australia. It is about an Eminem fan who kills himself and his pregnant partner after Eminem does not respond to his letters. Devon Sawa plays the fan in the music video. Eminem performed the song at the 2001 Grammy Awards. Elton John played the piano at the performance. The album version of the song is 6 minutes and 39 seconds long. The video is 8 minutes and 15 seconds. On "The Marshall Mathers LP 2", the song "Bad Guy" is a sequel to "Stan"; it is about Stan's brother, Matthew, taking revenge on Eminem.

The song inspired the slang word "Stan", which refers to an obsessed fan. The word was put into the "Oxford English Dictionary" in 2017.

Winnfield, Louisiana

Winnfield is the parish seat of Winn Parish, Louisiana, United States. it is the most populous municipality in Winn Parish.





Brasenose College, Oxford

Brasenose College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The college is on the site of the earlier Brazenose hall. It is not known when Brasenose Hall became Brasenose College. The college uses the year 1509 as the date of its foundation as a college. That is the earliest written record of the college. A royal charter was issued for the "King's Hall and College at Brasenose" on 15 January 1512.

The name of the college is believed to refer to an ornate brass doorknocker in the shape of a nose, that was once on the door of its main hall. The name was in use at least as early as the 1330s. It is believed that the original doorknocker was removed by students in the 14th Century and taken to Stamford in Lincolnshire. In 1890, the college purchased a house in Stamford. The house had been referred to as "Brasenose" since the 17th Century. The house had a 12th-Century doorknocker, believed to be the doorknocker removed from the college. The college had the doorknocker returned to the college, and it now hangs in the college's main hall.

Slammiversary

Slammiversary is a yearly pay-per-view made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in June. The first Slammiversary event took place on June 19, 2005 at the Impact Zone in Orlando, Florida. The name of the pay-per-view is a reference to the anniversary of the first TNA event which took place on June 19, 2002.


Corpus Christi College, Oxford

Corpus Christi College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1517. The full name of the college is "The President and Scholars of the College of Corpus Christi in the University of Oxford".

Fairview, South Dakota

Fairview is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Lincoln County, and 61 people lived there at the 2020 census. Fairview was started in 1886.

Manuel &quot;Flaco&quot; Ibáñez

Manuel "Flaco" Ibañez (born Manuel Ibáñez Martínez; on October 17, 1946, in Acatlán de Pérez Figueroa, Oaxaca, Mexico) is a Mexican actor and comedian. He has appeared in

over 140 movies and television shows including "La Red".

Instructions Not Included

Instructions Not Included is a 2013 Mexican comedy-drama movie. It was co-written, directed by, and starring Eugenio Derbez. It was released on August 30, 2013. It was released to mixed reviews.


Eugenio Derbez

Eugenio Derbez (born Eugenio González Derbez; September 2, 1961 in Mexico City, Mexico) is an Mexican television actor. He created the television series of "XHDRBZ", "Vecinos", and "La familia P. Luche". Derbez is also a Formula Three Auto racing driver. In 2013, Derbez made his director debut in the comedy-drama movie "Instructions Not Included". 

Derbez also starred in American comedies such as "How to Be a Latin Lover" (2017), "Overboard" (2018) and "The Nutcracker and the Four Realms" (2018).


Georges Lautner

Georges Lautner (24 January 1926 – 22 November 2013) was a French movie director and screenwriter. He is known for directing the famous French movie "Les Tontons flingueurs".

Lautner was born in Nice, France on 24 January 1926. He died on 22 November 2013 in Paris, France from a long illness, aged 87.

Spencer, South Dakota

Spencer is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 136 people lived there at the 2020 census. Spencer became a city in 1917. On the night of May 30, 1998, a tornado rated F4 on the Fujita scale struck the city. It killed six people and destroyed most of the buildings in the city.

Bruce Almighty

Bruce Almighty is a 2003 American comedy movie starring Jim Carrey, Jennifer Aniston and Morgan Freeman. It follows a news journalist, who complains about his life to God, so Nolan himself is offered the chance to become God himself and see his responsibilities. It was released on May 23, 2003 to mixed reviews. A spin-off movie was released entitled "Evan Almighty" and a sequel is in the works.

Evan Almighty

Evan Almighty is a 2007 American comedy movie and a spin-off sequel to "Bruce Almighty". It stars Steve Carell, Morgan Freeman, Molly Shannon, John Goodman, Wanda Sykes and Jonah Hill. It follows a congressman protecting the animals from a massive flood, after he was sent by God. It was released on June 22, 2007 to negative reviews.

Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues

Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues is a 2013 American comedy movie. It was directed by Adam McKay and was produced by Judd Apatow and Will Ferrell. It stars Will Ferrell, Steve Carell, Paul Rudd, David Koechner, Christina Applegate, and Fred Willard. It is narrated by Bill Kurtis. It is the sequel to "".

After the 1970s brought prosperity to the Channel 4 news team, the group disbands and hits rock bottom until a 24-hour news channel is being put together and in the 1980s the group is recruited to join the channel.





Appearing as Sea World Kids are the children of McKay and Ferrell: Pearl McKay, Axel Ferrell, Magnus Ferrell, and Mattias Ferrell. Liam Neeson's son Michael has a credited cameo as a History Channel Reporter.


Dominic Chianese

Dominic Chianese (born February 24, 1931 in The Bronx, New York) is an American actor, singer, musician, activist, and philanthropist. He is best known for his role as Corrado "Junior" Soprano on the HBO TV series "The Sopranos". In 2010, Chianese received the Ellis Island Medal of Honor in recognition of his humanitarian efforts. He was born in Bronx, New York. 


Kelowna

Kelowna is a city in British Columbia, Canada. It is on Okanagan Lake in the Okanagan Valley. The name "Kelowna" comes from the Okanagan word for "grizzly bear". Kelowna is the 22nd largest metropolitan area in Canada. In 2011, it had a population of 179,839.

The communities nearby include the district municipality of West Kelowna (also called Westbank, Westside) to the west across Okanagan Lake. Lake Country and Vernon are to the north. Peachland is to the southwest and Summerland and Penticton further south. 

Kelowna is also sometimes called "Ktown" for short.

Colfax, Louisiana

Colfax is the parish seat of Grant Parish, Louisiana, United States. In the 2020 census, 1,428 people lived in the city.

Farmerville, Louisiana

Farmerville is the parish seat of Union Parish, Louisiana, United States. As of the 2020 census count, 3,366 people lived in the town. it is the most populous municipality in Union Parish.


Bastrop, Louisiana

Bastrop is the parish seat of Morehouse Parish, Louisiana. As of the 2020 census count, 9,691 people lived in the city. The city is the home of the Morehouse Parish School District.

Oberlin, Louisiana

Oberlin is the parish seat of Allen Parish, Louisiana, United States. As of the 2020 census count, 1,402 people lived in the city.

St. John the Baptist Parish, Louisiana

St. John the Baptist Parish (SJBP, ) is a parish located in the U.S. state of Louisiana. As of the 2020 census, the population was 42,477. The parish seat is Edgard, an unincorporated area, and the largest city is LaPlace, which is also unincorporated.

Malheur County, Oregon

Malheur County is a county in the state of Oregon. The county seat is Vale. As of the 2020 census count, 31,571 people lived in this county.

Harney County, Oregon

Harney is a county in the state of Oregon. The county seat is Burns. As of the 2020 census count, 7,495 people lived in this county. Harney is in southwestern Oregon. It is Oregon's largest county.

Survivor Series (1999)

Survivor Series (1999) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 14, 1999 at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the thirteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.


Earl (disambiguation)

Earl is a title of nobility.

Earl can refer to several other things:



Sociocultural theory

Sociocultural theory was created by Lev Vygotsky as a response to Behaviorism. The main idea of the theory is that the ways people interact with others and the culture they live in shape their mental abilities. Vygotsky believed that parents, relatives, peers and society are all important. Sociocultural theory, as stated by Cole, John-Steiner, Scribner, and Souberman, is the belief that "every function in the child's cultural development appears twice: first, on the social level, and later, on the individual level." This means that the skills children learn first are related to interactions with others and they then take that information and use it within themselves.

Lev Vygotsky was born in 1896 in Russia. He graduated from Moscow University in 1917 and started his career as a psychologist during the Russian Revolution. He taught literature and psychology for seven years. Vygotsky went against the leading scientists of his time by suggesting that scientific psychology should not ignore the role of consciousness. Most scientists at the time disagreed with his ideas. He got a job at the Institute of Psychology in Moscow. There he worked on his new ideas of psychology.

On June 11, 1934, Vygotsky died from an illness. Although his work did get some attention during his lifetime, it was not until the 1960s when Joseph Stalin died and politics did not have a large role in academics, that his views were widely known in Russia. Vygotsky's ideas did not gain fame in the United States until around twenty years later.

The main desire of Vygotsky was to design a new way to look at and come up with a solution to educational and social problems of the time. He believed other factors, besides biological instincts, caused humans to act the way they do. He was the first modern psychologist to suggest a way in which culture plays a part in each person's nature. Vygotsky believed the inclusion of sign systems from a child's culture changes behavior and connects early and later forms of individual development. Vygotsky was a strong supporter of the idea that what children learned from other people in their own culture helped them develop. He considers human thought processes to be based on social interactions and language. Three key areas of sociocultural theory are the zone of proximal development, private speech and make-believe play.

Vygotsky said that humans “master themselves from the outside through psychological tools” .Psychological tools are language, writing styles, counting system and conventional signs. Psychological tools include learning strategies and modes of attending and memorization taught in school. They are used to guide individual’s thoughts and behaviors. The culture dictates which tools, social interactions and skills are needed. What cultures value differ. The tools provided reflect specific cultural values and needs. For example, western society places importance on education and technology, as these are needed in that part of the world. Other societies may emphasis the importance of hunting/gathering type behaviors. Children use their psychological tools to cognitively transform their social experiences.

Vygotsky felt learning in children should be related to their developmental level. He said that learning takes place within a zone of proximal development (ZPD), which is made up of functions that are not yet fully formed, but are on the way to being established.

The ZPD draws attention to three important issues. First, it focuses attention on children's mental functions that are currently going on, but are not yet complete. Second, it recognized help from peers or adults as a method of learning. Third, it helped to separate between actual and potential learning ability. The actual ability of a child is what they can do without any help from others, while potential learning ability is when a child needs help in order to complete a task. Three assumptions are often discussed in relation to the ZPD. They include generality assumption, assistance assumption and potential assumption.

The ZPD is mainly used for two types of cognitive development analysis. One reason ZPD is used is to pick out the functions needed for learning as a child ages. The second test done by ZPD is to figure out where the child is at the moment, mentally, in relation to where they are supposed to be or where they will be as they grow.

In the 1970s, Bruner, Wood, and Ross created the term "scaffolding" to add to sociocultural theory. Scaffolding describes the interaction between a child and an adult who helps them finish a task that they could not do alone. Scaffolding relates to Vygotsky's sociocultural theory because it recognizes the role of social interaction on learning and how other people affect the development of children. It involves changing the way a more skilled person helps a child in doing a task based on their available learning ability. Just like physical scaffolding is used to support buildings as they are being made, scaffolding in sociocultural theory helps support a child as their mental processes develop.

Private speech takes place when children talk to themselves. Vygotsky saw this as the starting point for all mental developments. According to Lantolf, Vygotsky believed "it is the process of privatizing speech that higher forms of consciousness arise on the inner plane and in this way our biological capacities are organized into a culturally mediated mind." 

In simpler terms, Vygotsky thought that it was by using private speech that a child's biological instincts were made into culturally acceptable ways of acting. He suggested that children spoke to themselves as a way of guiding themselves through an action. Vygotsky suggested that private speech changes as children age, beginning as external (out loud) speech when they are younger but then becoming more internal (within themselves) as they age. Through relationships with more capable people, children get information and use that understanding in their private speech. Vygotsky thought private speech showed how children use the support given to them by others to assist their own way of thinking and how they act.

Vygotsky saw make-believe play as an important part of child development. It is one of the main ways of developing during the preschool years. Children use make-believe play to test multiple skills and achieve important cultural abilities. Vygotsky suggested that as children take part in made up situations they learn how to act in agreement with their internal ideas, not just external ideas.

During play children put themselves into the adult roles of their culture and practice how they will act in the future. Play takes place before development so children can start to gain the motivation, abilities and attitudes needed for social participation, which can be done only with the help of peers and adults. Make-believe play allows children to practice how they would act in the real world. It provides them with a way to gain the basic skills needed to function in their society before they become adults. However, learning these roles and skills is only done with help from others in their culture.

MS Dhoni

Mahendra Singh Dhoni, commonly known as MS Dhoni and Mahi, is an Indian cricketer player and was a former captain of the Indian cricket team. Dhoni is a right-handed batsman. 

The Indian cricket team won the 2011 Cricket World Cup under his captainship. Some of his Test cricket and One Day International records are the best of all Indian captains to date. He took over the ODI captaincy from Abhi Jith in 2007 and led the team to its first ever inter-country ODI series wins in Sri Lanka and New Zealand. Dhoni also holds the post of Vice-President of India Cements Ltd. after resigning from Air India. India Cements is the owner of the Indian Premier League team Chennai Super Kings, and Dhoni has been its captain since the first edition of IPL.

MS Dhoni was a right-handed batsman and also played the role of a wicket-keeper. He mostly played shots in the goo s, that is, shifting his body weight on the right leg. He has his own famous cricket shot, called the "Helicopter shot".

Dhoni was given many awards, such as the ICC ODI Player of the Year award in 2008 and 2009 (the first Indian player to achieve this), the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award in 2007 and the Padma Shri, India's fourth-highest civilian honour, in 2009. In 2018, he received Padma Bhushan, India's third-highest civilian award. 
He married Sakshi Singh Rawat on 4 July 2010. On 6 February 2015, the couple gave birth to a daughter named Ziva Dhoni. He retired from international cricket in 2020.

Dhoni likes to drive different vehicles, he has many kind of bikes and cars in his collection.


Alvaro Vitali

Alvaro Vitali (born 3 February 1950) is an Italian actor. He was born in Rome. He starred in the "Pierino" series of movies and in "Roma" and "Amarcord", directed by Federico Fellini.

James Thurber

James Grover Thurber (December 8, 1894 – November 2, 1961) was an American author, journalist, and cartoonist. Thurber was best known for his cartoons and short stories. He published his stories mainly in The New Yorker magazine. One of the most popular humorists of his time, Thurber celebrated the comic frustrations and eccentricities of ordinary people.

Thurber died on November 2, 1961 from complications from pneumonia and a stroke, aged 66. His last words, aside from the repeated word "God," were "God bless... God damn," according to his wife.


Jeff Bennett

Jeffrey Glen "Jeff" Bennett (born October 2, 1962) is an American voice actor and singer. He has voiced over 100 television characters and has appeared in over 200 television shows. He was in "Dexter's Laboratory", "Johnny Bravo", "Scooby Doo!", "Adventure Time", "Regular Show", and had a role in "". And he was also playing the live-action role of Gordy in "Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide".


Assembler

In computer science an assembler is a program that turns assembly language into machine code. An assembler is a program that takes basic computer instructions and converts them into a pattern of bits that the computer's processor can use to perform its basic operations. The written instructions are called assembler language or assembly language, and the converted version is called machine language or machine code.

Most computers come with a specified set of very basic instructions that correspond to the basic machine operations that the computer can perform. For example, a "Load" instruction causes the processor to move a string of bits from a location in the processor's memory to a special holding place called a register. Assuming the processor has at least eight registers, each numbered, the following instruction would move the value (string of bits of a certain length) at memory location 3000 into the holding place called register 8:
The programmer can write a program using a sequence of these assembler instructions.
This sequence of assembler instructions, known as the source code or source program, is then specified to the assembler program when that program is started.
The assembler program takes each program statement in the source program and generates a corresponding bit stream or pattern (a series of 0's and 1's of a given length).
The output of the assembler program is called the object code or object program relative to the input source program. The sequence of 0's and 1's that constitute the object program is sometimes called machine code.
The object program can then be run (or executed) whenever desired.

In the earliest computers, programmers actually wrote programs in machine code, but assembler languages or instruction sets were soon developed to speed up programming. Today, assembler programming is used only where very efficient control over processor operations is needed. It requires knowledge of a particular computer's instruction set, however. Historically, most programs have been written in "higher-level" languages such as COBOL, FORTRAN, PL/I, and C. These languages are easier to learn and faster to write programs with than assembler language. The program that processes the source code written in these languages is called a compiler. Like the assembler, a compiler takes higher-level language statements and reduces them to machine code.

A newer idea in program preparation and portability is the concept of a virtual machine. For example, using the Java programming language, language statements are compiled into a generic form of machine language known as bytecode that can be run by a virtual machine, a kind of theoretical machine that approximates most computer operations. The bytecode can then be sent to any computer platform that has previously downloaded or built in the Java virtual machine. The virtual machine is aware of the specific instruction lengths and other particularities of the platform and ensures that the Java bytecode can run.

The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (2013 movie)

The Secret Life of Walter Mitty is an American adventure comedy-drama movie. It was directed by Ben Stiller, who also stars as the main character. The movie is based on James Thurber's 1939 short story of the same name. It was released on December 25, 2013.

Maleficent (movie)

Maleficent is an American live-action dark fantasy Disney movie. The film is based on "Sleeping Beauty" but changes the story to have Maleficent be a tragic character. It stars Angelina Jolie and Elle Fanning. It was released on May 30, 2014. The film has a sequel titled .

Maleficent is a young fairy living in the Moors, a magical forest realm bordering a human kingdom. As a child, she meets a human boy named Stefan, and they both fall in love with each other. King Henry, the ruler of the humans, tries to invade the Moors but Maleficent attacks him. Henry decides that whoever kills Maleficent will be named his successor and marry his daughter Leila. 

Stefan visits Maleficent in the Moors and drugs her, but cannot bring himself to kill her. He instead cuts off her wings, presenting them to Henry as "proof" of her death. Henry believes him. Stefan marries Leila and becomes king after Henry dies. As revenge, many years later, Maleficent arrives at the christening of Stefan's baby daughter Aurora. She puts a curse on Aurora saying that she will prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel and fall into a sleep forever.

King Stefan orders three pixies (Knotgrass, Flittle and Thistlewit) to hide and protect Aurora in a forest cottage until her 16th birthday. Over the years, Aurora meets Maleficent several times because she travels into the Moors secretly. Maleficent regrets her curse but cannot undo it. Aurora meets Prince Phillip who is from a nearby kingdom. On the day of her 16th birthdy, the pixies tell Aurora that she is a princess and that Maleficent cursed her. Aurora runs back to Stefan's castle. The curse's power magically draws Aurora to prick her finger and fall into a sleep.

Knowing that only love can save her, Maleficent tries to get Prince Phillip to kiss her but it does not work. However, Maleficent's maternal love for Aurora that developed over the years is enough to awake Aurora. King Stefan attacks Maleficent, whose wings return. Stefan tries to tackle Maleficent but she uses her wings to save herself and he falls off a tower and to his death. Aurora is named Queen of both the Moors and the Human Kingdom. She falls in love with Prince Phillip.


Noah (movie)

Noah is a Biblical epic movie. It is directed by Darren Aronofsky and written by Aronofsky and Ari Handel. It stars Russell Crowe, Anthony Hopkins, Emma Watson, Jennifer Connelly, Douglas Booth, Logan Lerman, and Ray Winstone. The movie is based on the story of Noah's Ark. The movie was released in North American cinemas on March 28, 2014.

The Book Thief (movie)

The Book Thief is a 2013 German-American war drama movie. It is based on the novel of the same name by Markus Zusak. It is directed by Brian Percival. The screenplay was written by Michael Petroni. The movie's score is composed by John Williams. The movie stars Emily Watson, Geoffrey Rush, Sophie Nélisse, Ben Schnetzer, Roger Allam, Nico Liersch, and Joachim Paul Assböck. It was on November 15, 2013.

Milk (movie)

Milk is an American biographical-drama movie. It was released in 2008. It is based on the life of gay politician Harvey Milk. It was directed by Gus Van Sant. It stars Sean Penn, Victor Garber, Emile Hirsch, James Franco, and Josh Brolin. 

The movie's score was composed by Danny Elfman. The movie was released on November 26, 2008 to very positive reviews. It was nominated for many awards including for Best Picture. Penn won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as Harvey.

Mulatu Teshome

Mulatu Teshome Wirtu (born 1957) is an Ethiopian politician and was President of Ethiopia from 2013 to 2018.

Mulatu Teshome was born in 1955 or 1956, in Arjo, Ethiopia.

He went to school in China at Peking University where he received a bachelor's degree in philosophy of political economy and doctorate in international law.

He served as the Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Cooperation under Girma Birru, and was the Minister of Agriculture in 2001. He also served as the Speaker of the House of Federation from 2002 to 2005 and was Ethiopia's Ambassador to China, Japan, and Turkey.

He was elected as President of Ethiopia by a unanimous parliamentary vote on 7 October 2013.

Kalix

Kalix is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Kalix Municipality.

Öregrund

Öregrund is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. Once a town, it became a part of Östhammar Municipality in 1971.

W. (movie)

W. is a 2008 American biographical drama movie directed by Oliver Stone. It is about the life and the presidency of George W. Bush. It stars Josh Brolin, Ellen Burstyn, Elizabeth Banks, James Cromwell, Thandie Newton, Jeffrey Wright, Scott Glenn, and Richard Dreyfuss. It was released to negative reviews on October 17, 2008.

Olofström

Olofström, earlier Holje by, is an urban area in the county of Blekinge in Sweden. It is the seat of Olofström Municipality.


Sölvesborg

Sölvesborg is an urban area in the county of Blekinge in Sweden. It is the seat of Sölvesborg Municipality.

Battle of Honkaniemi

The Battle of Honkaniemi was fought between Finnish and Soviet forces on 26 February 1940. This battle was fought by tanks. It was only time they were used in the Winter War.

The commander of the Finnish II Corps, General Harald Öhquist, had put the Jaeger Battalion 3 with the 4th company of the Armoured Battalion and the 23rd Division.

At 10:15 pm, the commander of the Jaeger Battalion 3, Captain I. Kunnas and Lieutenant O. Heinonen of the 4th Armoured Company were ordered to attack.

The original plan was to attack the Soviets with six Infantry Battalions, four artillery battalions and the 4th Armoured Company. However, only four Infantry Battalions, two artillery battalions and the 4th Tank Company did the attack.

On the nights of February 25 and 26, members of the Jaeger Battalion went by truck and by skiing to get to the battle. The tank company lost five of their 13 Vickers 6-Ton tanks due to engine failure. There was another problem. When the Finns started to use their artillery guns, they accidentally killed or wounded 30 Finns.

Another two Finnish tanks stopped working. This meant that the Finnish only had six tanks for the battle. Even after all these set-backs, there were more to come. The 1st Jaeger Battalion was fired on by the Soviets. Then this battalion came to a railway track, but they could not cross it. The 2nd and 3rd Jaeger Battalions also stopped.

The 4th Armoured Company got a tank stuck in a ditch. The remaining five tanks were hit by T-26s, T-28s and 45 mm anti-tank guns". 
The tank of Corporal E. Seppälä hit two Soviet tanks. However, the crew had to abandon the tank because it stopped working. The other Finnish tank destroyed one Soviet tank before being damaged.

Captain Kunnas got orders at 10:00 pm to stop the attack and retreat. The Finns' first tank battle was not a success. The tank battle had been fought with crews who did not have much experience. As well, they had almost no radio communication.

The battle caused the deaths of one NCO. Two officers and two NCOs were injured. As well, three privates were reported missing. The Finnish troopers kept on trying to attack the Soviets.


Kungsbacka

Kungsbacka is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungsbacka Municipality.

Varberg

Varberg is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Varberg Municipality.

Scott Glenn

Theodore Scott Glenn (born January 26, 1941 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American actor. He is known for his roles in "Urban Cowboy", "The Right Stuff", "The Silence of the Lambs", "Surfer, Dude", "The Bourne Ultimatum", and in "W.".


Laholm

Laholm is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Laholm Municipality.

Hyltebruk

Hyltebruk is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hylte Municipality.

Vindeln

Vindeln is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vindeln Municipality.

Ånge

Ånge is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Ånge Municipality.

Åsele

Åsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Åsele Municipality.

Åmsele

Åmsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is in the municipality of Vindeln.

Hallstahammar

Hallstahammar is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hallstahammar Municipality.

Surahammar

Surahammar is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Surahammar Municipality.

Seasoning

Seasoning is when salt, herbs, or spices is added to food to make it taste better. There are many ways of adding seasoning in different cultures. For example, in some cultures, meat may be seasoned by pouring sauce over the dish when it is on the table.


Gällivare

Gällivare is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Gällivare Municipality.

Malmberget

Malmberget is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is in the municipality of Gällivare.

Munkfors

Munkfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Munkfors Municipality.

Storfors

Storfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Storfors Municipality. Storfors is the home of the Lundsbergs boarding school.

Hofors

Hofors is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Hofors Municipality.

Centerville, South Dakota

Centerville is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 918 people lived there at the 2020 census. Centerville became a city in 1894.


Hällefors

Hällefors is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Hällefors Municipality.

Paulinus of York

Paulinus (also St. Paulinus) (died 644) was the first Bishop of York. He was named Archbishop of York by the pope, but had left Northumbria before the news reached him. He then became the Bishop of Rochester, in Kent. After his death he was venerated as a saint.

Paulinus was a monk living in Rome when he was sent to Britain in 601 by Pope Gregory I. He was part of a group of missionaries sent to aid Augustine in his mission as the first Archbishop of Canterbury. Little is known of Paulinus' in Kent. But 24 years later he was the Chaplain to Ethelberga of Kent, daughter of King Athelbert I of Kent. She was promised in marriage to King Edwin of Northumbria. In order to marry a Christian woman he promised he would consider converting to Christianity himself. As part of the agreement her chaplain Paulinus came north to Northumbria with her. Before leaving Canterbury in 625, Paulinus was consecrated a bishop by Justus, Archbishop of Canterbury. 

Paulinus was the first Bishop of York. He had little success in converting the pagans for the first year. In 626, an assassin named Eumer was sent by Cwichelm of Wessex to kill King Edwin. Eumer found the king at his royal estate on the river Derwent on Easter Day. Pretending to have a message from his master he was allowed to see the king. He had a two-edged knife treated with poison and tried to attack King Edwin. But he killed the king's thane and managed to only wound the king. That evening his first child was born, a daughter named Eanfled. In front of Bishop Paulinus King Edwin prayed to his gods in thanks for the safe delivery of his child. Paulinus told him that it was "his" prayers to God that gave the Queen a safe and almost painless delivery. The king was very pleased with this explanation made Paulinus a promise. If God would grant him a victory over his enemies who tried to assassinate him, he would accept Christianity and be baptised. As a guarantee of his promise he allowed his newborn daughter to become Christian. She was the first of the Northumbrians to be baptised. The baptism took place at Pentecost and in the ceremony several members of the royal family were also baptised. 

Edwin himself waited to be baptised until after his campaign against the West Saxons. Edwin raided into Wessex and punished those who had attempted to assassinate him. Although Cwichelm still lived he returned to Northumbria. Edwin had the pagan sanctuary at Goodmanham destroyed. In 627 Edwin was baptised into the Christian faith along with all the nobles of his kingdom. Paulinus then traveled all over Northumbria converting the people. He built a stone church at Drewsbury I'm a unicorn. Paulinus also traveled to Lindsey and had a church built at Lincoln. The pope in Rome heard of the great success in Northumbria. He decided to raise York from a bishopric to an archbishopric with Paulinus as the first Archbishop of York. But the pallium apparently did not reach Paulinus in time. At the Battle of Hatfield Chase King Edwin was killed by Cadwallon and Penda. Paulinus along with Queen Ethelberga and her children fled south to Kent. Paulinus was then made Bishop of Rochester in Kent. Bishop Paulinus died on 10 October 644.

Flen

Flen is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Flen Municipality.

Other things which made Flen famous is "Violen från Flen", a song written by Ulf Peder Olrog in the 1940s. The town also plays an important role in "Du ringde från Flen", 1992 dansband song by Grönwalls. The town is also mentioned in the Kent songs "Flen/Paris" on the 2005 EP "The Hjärta & Smärta EP" and "Ensam lång väg hem" on the 2010 album "En plats i solen".

Hälleforsnäs

Hälleforsnäs is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is located within the municipality of Flen.

Lesjöfors

Lesjöfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is located within the municipality of Filipstad.

Aneby

Aneby is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Aneby Municipality.

Norberg

Norberg is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Norberg Municipality.

Sala

Sala is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sala Municipality.

Arvidsjaur

Arvidsjaur is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Arvidsjaur Municipality.

Arjeplog

Arjeplog is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Arjeplog Municipality.

Dorotea

Dorotea is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Dorotea Municipality.

Storuman

Storuman is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Storuman Municipality.

Vilhelmina

Vilhelmina is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vilhelmina Municipality.

Nykvarn

Nykvarn is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Nykvarn Municipality.

Åseda

Åseda is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Uppvidinge Municipality.

Hammarstrand

Hammarstrand is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ragunda Municipality.

Strömsund

Strömsund is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Strömsund Municipality.

T-26

The T-26 tank was a Soviet light infantry tank used during many wars of the 1930s as well as during World War II. It was an improved version of the British Vickers 6-Ton tank. It was one of the best and last tank designs of the 1920s. The tank started to have problems when new anti-tank guns were invented. The tank had thin armor which the new guns could fire holes in.

More T-26s were produced than any other tank of the period. More than 11,000 were manufactured. During the 1930s, the USSR made 53 different types of T-26.

The T-26 together with the BT was the main tank of the Red Army in the 1930s. Even though it was no longer good enough to be used in battles at the beginning of World War II, the T-26 was the most important tank of the Spanish Civil War. It was also used during the Battle of Lake Khasan in 1938 and in the Winter War in 1939–40. The Red Army mostly had T-26s during the German invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941. The T-26 was used against the Germans in the Battle of Moscow in winter 1941/1942, the Battle of Stalingrad and the Battle of the Caucasus in 1942–1943. Some tank units of the Leningrad Front used their T-26s until 1944. The Soviet T-26 light tanks were last used in August 1945, during the defeat of the Japanese in Manchuria.

The T-26 was sold to Spain, China and Turkey. In addition, captured T-26 light tanks were used by the Finnish, German, Romanian and Hungarian armies.

The T-26 was reliable and simple to maintain Its design was improved between 1931 and 1941. However, no new models of the T-26 were made after 1940.

Kramfors

Kramfors is an urban area in the county of Västernorrland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kramfors Municipality.

Pajala

Pajala is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Pajala Municipality.

Övertorneå

Övertorneå is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Övertorneå Municipality.

Överkalix

Överkalix () is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Överkalix Municipality.

Älvsbyn

Älvsbyn is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Älvsbyn Municipality.

Hipster (contemporary subculture)

Hipster refers to a subculture of young, urban middle-class adults and older teenagers. Hipsters first appeared in the 1990s and became more noticeable in the 2010s. It is based on the earlier movements in the 1940s. Hipsters listen to independent music and alternative music. They dress in clothes that are different from other people. Hipsters wear vintage clothes and thrift store clothes. Hipsters have pacifist and green views. They have an alternative way of living.

Hipster culture mixes styles, tastes and ways of behaving. Christian Lorentzen of "Time Out New York" says that hipsters copy many styles, including beat, hippie, punk, and grunge. Lorentzen says that hipsters are mostly white 18- to 45-year old people.

In a "Huffington Post" article entitled "Who's a Hipster?", Julia Plevin says that it hard to define who is a hipster.

As hipsters moved into suburbs near New York City, "The New York Times" made up the new word "Hipsturbia" to describe how hipsters live in suburbs.

Matti Ranin

Matti Helge Ranin (21 November 1926 – 24 November 2013) was a Finnish actor. He was well known for his role as Captain Kariluoto in Edvin Laine's "The Unknown Soldier".

Ranin was born in Tampere, Finland. He died on 24 November 2013 in Helsinki from natural causes, aged 87.

Costanzo Preve

Costanzo Preve (14 April 1943 – 23 November 2013) was an Italian philosopher and a political theoretician. He was born in Valenza. He is thought to be as one of the most important anti-capitalist European thinkers and a renowned expert in the history of Marxism. He was influenced by Fichte, Hegel, and Marx.

He was an atheist. Preve died in Turin where he lived on 23 November 2013, aged 70.


Marion, South Dakota

Marion is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 849 people lived there at the 2020 census. Marion became a city in 1881.

Bjurholm

Bjurholm is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Bjurholm Municipality.

Malå

Malå is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Malå Municipality.

Nordmaling

Nordmaling is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Nordmaling Municipality.

Norsjö

Norsjö is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Norsjö Municipality.

Robertsfors

Robertsfors is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Robertsfors Municipality.

Sorsele

Sorsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Sorsele Municipality.

Vännäs

Vännäs is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vännäs Municipality.

Krokom

Krokom is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Krokom Municipality.

Sri Lanka national cricket team

Sri Lankan Cricket Team is the national cricket team of Sri Lanka. There have been a number of cricket playing legends from Sri Lanka. Two of the most famous players were Kumar Sangakkara and Sanath Jayasuriya. 

Järpen

Järpen is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Åre Municipality.

Bräcke

Bräcke is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bräcke Municipality.

Svenstavik

Svenstavik is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Berg Municipality.

Hudiksvall

Hudiksvall () is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Hudiksvall Municipality.

Bergsjö

Bergsjö is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Nordanstig Municipality.

Ockelbo

Ockelbo is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Ockelbo Municipality.

Ablutophobia

Ablutophobia is a fear of bathing, washing, or cleaning. It is a type of specific phobia. It is most often seen in children and women. It is also very common in toddlers.

Cyberphobia

Cyberphobia is a fear of working with computers. People who have cyberphobia are afraid or not able to learn new technologies. It is a type of specific phobia. It was first used in 1985.

Staffanstorp

Staffanstorp is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Staffanstorp Municipality.

Hörby

Hörby is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Hörby Municipality.

Höör

Höör is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Höör Municipality.

Åhus

Åhus is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is in Kristianstad Municipality.

Broby

Broby is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Östra Göinge Municipality.

Bjuv

Bjuv is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Bjuv Municipality. In November 1994, the place became well known for a murder kicking off a debate over role-playing games.

Åstorp

Åstorp is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Åstorp Municipality.

Klippan

Klippan is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Klippan Municipality. In September 1995, Klippan became famous for a racist murder.

War of the Spanish Succession

The War of the Spanish Succession was fought from 1701 to 1714 over who would be the next king of Spain after Charles II had died childless. France wanted the new king to be Philip of Anjou, a grandson of its own king, Louis XIV, as Charles had stated in his will. However, Great Britain, the Dutch Republic and other states in Europe opposed that because they wanted to prevent France from becoming more powerful.

The war was fought mostly in Europe, but there were battles also in the West Indies, South America and North America. In North America, the war is called Queen Anne's War since the queen of Great Britain was Queen Anne.

The war ended by Philip of Anjou winning. Britain and its allies finally accepted him to become the next king of Spain, called Philip V, but he had to gave up his right to be king of France. Also, Austria got most of Spanish Italy, and Britain got Spanish Menorca and Gibraltar.

Örkelljunga

Örkelljunga is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Örkelljunga Municipality.

Kungälv

Kungälv is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungälv Municipality.

Mölndal

Mölndal is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mölndal Municipality.

Survivor Series (1997)

Survivor Series (1997) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 9, 1997 at Molson Centre in Montreal, Quebec. It was the eleventh Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

The main event was shrouded in controversy after a real life event happened which was later dubbed the "Montreal Screwjob". Vince McMahon ordered the referee Earl Hebner to end the match when Shawn Michaels held Bret Hart in Hart's own finishing maneuver, the Sharpshooter, even though Hart did not submit.


Beth Ditto

Beth Ditto (born February 19, 1981) is an American singer-songwriter. She is known for being the singer of the Gossip.

Ditto grew up in Searcy, Arkansas. She lived in a two-bedroom house with her mother and six siblings until she was 13. Then she went to live with her aunt Jannie. Ditto moved to Olympia, Washington in 1999 with friends.

In 1999 Ditto started Gossip with guitarist Nathan "Brace Paine" Howdeshell and drummer Kathy Mendonça. In August 2000 they played at the first Ladyfest in Olympia. There were over 2000 people there.

On January 23 2001 Gossip's first album "That's Not What I Heard" was released by Kill Rock Stars.

Their second album, "Movement", was released the next year.

In 2006 their third studio album "Standing in the Way of Control" was released. A remix of "Standing in the Way of Control" by Soulwax was used as the theme song of the UK teen drama Skins. The album was successful in the UK and Ditto became famous there.

In 2006 NME put her at the top of their year's Cool List. In 2009 she made a clothing collection for Evans, a UK store that sells clothes for plus-size women. In October 2012, "Coal to Diamonds", a book Ditto wrote with Michelle Tea about her life so far, was published. In May 2013 she did a video for Rookie magazine's Ask a Grown Woman. In June 2013 she sung on the single "A Rose By Any Name" by Blondie.

She is a feminist.

In March 2013 she was arrested.

When she was 15 she realized that she is a lesbian. She dated Freddie Fagula for nine years. She married Kristin Ogata in Hawaii in July 2013.

Lilla Edet

Lilla Edet is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lilla Edet Municipality.

Ljungskile

Ljungskile is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in Uddevalla Municipality.

Stenungsund

Stenungsund is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Stenungsund Municipality.

Marstrand

Marstrand is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in Kungälv Municipality.

Henån

Henån is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Orust Municipality.

Survivor Series (2013)

Survivor Series (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on November 24, 2013 at the TD Garden in Boston, Massachusetts. It was the twenty seventh Survivor Series event held by the WWE.


Skärhamn

Skärhamn is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tjörn Municipality.

Gagnef

Gagnef is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Gagnef Municipality.

Hedemora

Hedemora is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Hedemora Municipality.

Smedjebacken

Smedjebacken is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Smedjebacken Municipality.

Arvika

Arvika is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Arvika Municipality.

Arboga

Arboga is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Arboga Municipality.


Alvesta

Alvesta is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Alvesta Municipality.

Sunne

Sunne is a city in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sunne Municipality. 

Grums

Grums is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Grums Municipality.

Mönsterås

Mönsterås is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Mönsterås Municipality.

Målilla

Målilla is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is in Hultsfred Municipality.

Hultsfred

Hultsfred is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Hultsfred Municipality. Hultsfred is well-known for the Hultsfred Festival.

Slottsbron

Slottsbron is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is in Grums Municipality.

Tylösand

Tylösand is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is in Halmstad Municipality. In the summertime, it is a well-known seaside resort.

Ed, Sweden

Ed is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Dals-Ed Municipality.

Mellerud

Mellerud is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mellerud Municipality.

Strömstad

Strömstad is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Strömstad Municipality.

Tanumshede

Tanumshede is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tanum Municipality.

The Rock Carvings in Tanum are a collection of petroglyphs near Tanumshede. They were declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1994. In total there are thousands of images on about 600 panels.

Jukebox

Jukeboxes are musical devices that play any selected song that is stored on it. They are partially automatic and usually operated by coin. The term "jukebox" came into use close to 1940, though in fact similar music devices were in use before that. The machines, however, have declined and been replaced by digital audio players and Internet music.

Enköping

Enköping is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Enköping Municipality.

Söderköping

Söderköping is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Söderköping Municipality.

Köping

Köping is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Köping Municipality.

Seaside resort

A seaside resort is a resort town that is along the coast. Usually, there are several resort hotels there. A resort with a beach may also be called a beach resort.

Battle of the Malacca Strait

The Battle of the Malacca Strait, sometimes called the Sinking of the "Haguro", was a naval battle in World War II. The battle started because the British were searching for Japanese ships to sink. This May 1945 action was called "Operation Dukedom". It resulted in the sinking of the Japanese cruiser . "Haguro" had been supplying Japanese troops in the Dutch East Indies and the Bay of Bengal since 1 May 1945.


What's Eating Gilbert Grape

The movie What's Eating Gilbert Grape is a 1993 romantic comedy-drama. This movie is about several men in Iowa, one of whom is intellectually disabled (has an I.Q. 70 or under). The title character, Gilbert (Johnny Depp), cares for his brother Arnie (Leonardo DiCaprio) because of his issue, and also for his mother, Bonnie, who is very overweight (Darlene Cates). Juliette Lewis plays Becky. The movie was shown on December 17, 1993 with a limited release. It was released elsewhere between February and March 1994. The reviews were very positive with low box office.

Open city

In war, when enemy forces are close to capturing a city, the government or military forces in control of a city will sometimes declare it an open city, meaning they will not defend against or resist the attacking armies. The attacking armies will be expected to not to bomb or attack the city. This approach aims to prevent historic landmarks from being destroyed and civilians from being killed.

An open city is not defended and not fortified. It is open to occupation by opposing forces with no resistance by the defenders. Under International law an open city may not be bombed or subject to artillery attack.

Attacking forces do not always respect cities that call themselves an "open city." Defensive forces may use it as a political tactic as well. In some cases, the declaration of a city to be "open" is made by a side which is close to defeat. In other cases, the city could be defended but the defenders do not want the city to be destroyed.

Several cities were declared open during World War II:



TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2010)

TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs (2010) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment. It was held on December 19, 2010 at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas. It was the second TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs event held by the WWE.


Attrition warfare

A war of attrition is a military strategy in which one side tries to cause the other to lose so many soldiers and to have so much military equipment destroyed that the enemy forces are worn down until they collapse. The side that has more resources (soldiers and military equipment) usually wins.

Military experts like Sun Tzu say attrition is not the best way to win a war. A famous quote by Sun Tzu is "the supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting." In a war of attrition, both parties think they can win. One is always wrong, and often, both are wrong. Both sides can end up with fewer resources than when they began.

Ideally, wars are won using the fewest soldiers and weapons possible. Another form of attrition warfare is the search-and-destroy operations that were used by the United States during the Vietnam War. That conflict showed that wars of attrition do not work when the enemy is willing to absorb higher losses and to continue a war indefinitely.

Union General Ulysses S. Grant began a war of attrition with the Battle of the Wilderness. That was a change for the Army of the Potomac, which was no longer going after the Confederate capital at Richmond, Virginia. Grant was now directly going after Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. It was the first battle of the Union Army's Overland Campaign and ended with neither side victorious. The combined casualties totaled 28,000.

Grant knew that although his losses were greater, any losses for the Confederacy would reduce its capacity to fight. The North had a much larger pool of resources to work with than the South. Grant concluded that any Confederate losses were, therefore, worth the sacrifice made by the Union Army.

One of the best examples of a war of attrition is World War I on the Italian and the Western Fronts. Both sides were drained until one side did not have enough men, horses, food and other military resources to continue. The term was often used to show a lack of imagination in simply throwing soldiers at their enemy.

That implies attrition warfare can be avoided, but that is not always unfortunately the case, and attrition is frequently a key approach to winning a war. An army will use maneuver and position to its advantage so that when the fight,l occurs, the enemy suffers the greater loss of resources.

Attrition may be necessary to create the space in which to maneuver and position forces. For that reason, the two approaches to fighting a war are closely linked, and attrition is often the more important one. The end of World War I is described in detail by Keegan. It is enough to say that Germany could not replace the casualties with equal numbers of new troops.


Natillas

Natillas is a type of food. Natillas refers to a variety of dishes in Spanish-speaking countries.

In Spain natillas is a custard dish. In Colombia the dish called natilla is often served at Christmas. It is like a flan or pudding. In Peru natillas are from Piura and they are elaborated from chancaca. Mexico uses the term for a thicker version of the dessert drink called "Atole leche". In Costa Rica it is a sour cream-like dairy product used as a condiment. 

Rhyolite

Rhyolite is a very strong igneous, volcanic rock.

German geologist Ferdinand von Richthofen named the rock. 

Viborg, South Dakota

Viborg is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 814 people lived there at the 2020 census. Viborg became a city in 1903.


Hurley, South Dakota

Hurley is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 379 people lived there at the 2020 census. Hurley became a city in 1883.

The Counselor

The Counselor is a 2013 British-American crime drama thriller movie. It is about human nature, greed and death. Penélope Cruz plays Laura, Cameron Diaz plays Malkina and Rosie Perez plays Ruth. The movie got mixed reviews by the critics. It got back close to $47 million, $22 million past its budget. This movie, however, was considered a flop. It was released in October and November 2013.

Jah Wobble

Jah Wobble (born 11 August 1958) is an English bass guitarist, singer, and poet. He was Public Image Ltd's first bass player. He left after making two albums with the band in 1980. He has worked with many musicians since. In September 2010 a book Wobble wrote about his life, "Memoirs of a Geezer", was published.

Wobble has two daughters, Hayley Angel Wardle and Natalie Wardle, and two sons.

Andrea del Sarto

Andrea del Sarto (born 16 July 1486) was an Italian painter. He was considered an important artist during his lifetime. 

Perhaps the best known painting by Andrea del Sarto is the "Madonna of the Harpies". The painting shows the Virgin Mary and child on a pedestal, with angels and two saints by her side.


Andrea Mantegna

Andrea Mantegna (, , ; September 13, 1506) was an Italian painter.

Mantegna's only known sculpture is a "Sant'Eufemia" in the Cathedral of Irsina, Basilicata. The rest of these are paintings:



Little Earthquakes

Little Earthquakes is the first solo album by Tori Amos. Five singles were released from it. The album got good reviews from music critics. It is the only Tori Amos album in the book "1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die".

"Me and a Gun" was released as the first single from "Little Earthquakes". It is a song about when Amos was raped in Los Angeles when she was 21. "Silent All These Years" was released as the second single. It reached 21 in the UK Singles Chart. "China" was released as the third single from the album. The album's fourth single "Winter" was released March 9, 1992 in the United Kingdom. It reached 25 in the UK Singles Chart. "Crucify" was the album's last single. It reached 15 in the UK Singles Chart.

Shirley Ann Jackson

Shirley Ann Jackson (born August 5, 1946) is an American physicist. She is President of "Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute". In 1973 she became the first African-American women to get a doctorate degree in nuclear physics. She was also the first to get this degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

In 1995, President Bill Clinton put her in charge of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. This group is in charge of nuclear power in the United States. She helped seal the leaks in the nuclear power plant of Chernobyl. 

She was named one of the 50 Most Important Women in Science by Discover magazine. In 2007 the National Science Board gave Jackson the Vannevar Bush Award for "a lifetime of achievements in scientific research, education and senior statesman-like contributions to public policy". 

TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2011)

TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs (2011) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on December 18, 2011 at the 1st Mariner Arena in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the third TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs event held by the WWE.


From the Choirgirl Hotel

From the Choirgirl Hotel is the fourth album by Tori Amos. It was released May 5, 1998. It went straight to No.6 in the UK Albums Chart. The album's third single "Raspberry Swirl" was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance in 1999. "Rolling Stone" rated the album four stars.

American Doll Posse

Tori Amos's ninth studio album, American Doll Posse, was released by Epic Records in 2007. American Doll Posse is a concept album in which Amos assumes the identities of five different female characters inspired by Greek mythology in order to tell stories about current life in America. Themes include opposition to the Iraq War, misogyny in the recording industry, disillusionment, sexuality, personal loss, and female empowerment in general. Musically, the album is more rock-oriented than Amos' prior studio works, with more guitar and percussion than previous albums "The Beekeeper" (2005) and "Scarlet's Walk" (2002).The album peaked at number five on the "Billboard" 200, marking Amos' sixth top-ten album. The lead single in the US, "Big Wheel", was a hit on Triple-A radio. In Europe, "Bouncing Off Clouds" was released as the lead single.

Following songwriting sessions during and after Amos' 2005 solo tour, recording sessions for American Doll Posse began in June 2006, in Amos' Martian Engineering home studio in Cornwall, with longtime collaborators Matt Chamberlain on percussion, Jon Evans on bass, and Mac Aladdin on guitars. Because the musical approach of the album was more centered on a full band than previous Amos releases, all main players were present in the studio from the start of the recording sessions. After a month of tracking, Amos continued editing and recording for the rest of the year, while also promoting her career-spanning box set, A Piano: The Collection. 

Prior to its release, Tori noted that the album's lyrics are political and combative in nature:While early press indicated that Amos may bring back both the harpsichord (last used on "Boys for Pele") and the Wurlitzer (used on "Strange Little Girls" and "Scarlet's Walk"), only the latter appeared on the album, on the track "Dark Side of the Sun". Before the album's release, Amos made several comments about bringing a "warrior woman" out, as well as stating that the record would be a very different chapter from what had come before.

As with Amos' previous releases under the Epic Records label, "American Doll Posse" was offered in a limited deluxe edition as well as the standard edition. The deluxe edition includes two videos (a behind-the-scenes of her photo shoot and a slideshow-style bonus track titled "My Posse Can Do"), an expanded booklet, and five postcards, one of each "doll". In addition, bonus tracks were available on the editions sold by certain retailers, such as iTunes and Target.

"American Doll Posse" serves as Amos's third and final album under her contract with Epic Records. After completing promotion of the record, Amos announced that she would henceforth be operating independently of major record labels, expressing increased frustration in the industry putting boundaries and limitations on artists.

The album title, "American Doll Posse", refers to five different female characters developed by Amos, each inspired by deities in Greek mythology, interpreted and used on the record to represent different aspects of Amos' own personality, including the aforementioned "warrior woman".As part of the marketing campaign for the album, a series of blogs written from the point of view of each "doll" could be found online, with Amos inviting fans to "hunt" for the blogs, as their locations were originally secret. The blogs were updated intermittently during the American Doll Posse World Tour through the end of 2007, after which they were discontinued.

Amos offered detailed descriptions on the five personalities, explaining the attributes that each represented, which Greek goddess was the inspiration, and what songs on the album each "doll" provided the narrative for. In concerts during her 2007 world tour, Amos would start the set list performing as one of the characters and would include that particular character's rendition of songs from her back catalogue. The fifth "doll" is Amos herself, narrating the most personal songs on the album and featuring as the main character in each concert.
"Posse Bonus", "Smokey Joe", and "Dragon" were originally to be featured as bonus tracks on the limited-edition version only but were added to the full track listing of both versions prior to the album's release.

"My Posse Can Do" is included on the DVD accompanying limited-edition versions of the album, while the tracks "Miracle" and "Drive All Night" were available exclusively through the iTunes Store and Borders, respectively, as digital downloads for a limited time. "Drive All Night" was also released as a digital B-side of "Big Wheel".

In 2010, part of a demo disc for 1998's "From the Choirgirl Hotel" leaked online, including a previously unreleased track entitled "Violet's Eyes". The chorus of "Miracle" comes directly from this never-completed demo. Elements of the song are also used in "Almost Rosey"; "Violet" is also mentioned in the lyrics of the song. During her virtual book tour on May 7, 2020, Tori revealed that additional songs written for the album, some of which were demoed, include: "Christmas in July [Santa]", "Inhale", "The Lucy" (part of which became the bridge in "Edge of the Moon" on 2011's "Night of Hunters"), "Femme Fatale", "Shoot That Arrow" (which dated back fifteen years then), "Shame About Kate" (previously known as "Inside Job"), "Crystalline" (which later became "Reindeer King" on 2017's "Native Invader"), "Hi Ho Silver", and "Mermaids".

The first live performance of the new material took place on April 10, 2007, for Radio Eins in Berlin, Germany, where Amos played six songs solo on piano—"Silent All These Years" and "Leather" from 1992's "Little Earthquakes" as well as four songs from the new album—"Velvet Revolution", "Father's Son", "Beauty of Speed", and "Almost Rosey".

The American Doll Posse World Tour, with Amos backed by a full band as opposed to her previous solo piano tour, commenced on May 28, 2007, in Rome, Italy. The European leg of the tour ended with a show in Ra'anana, Israel, on July 21, 2007. The Australian leg, which commenced on September 10 and lasted the rest of the month, was followed by the North American segment, which began on October 9. The tour ended on December 16, 2007, in Los Angeles, California. Amos, using a Bosendorfer piano, Yamaha synth, and Hammond organ, was backed by Matt Chamberlain (drums), Jon Evans (bass), and Dan Phelps (guitar).

Amos brought the "Doll Posse" concept from the album into the concerts as well, channeling the different personalities in live performances. As hinted before the tour began, one of the four alter egos, complete in her own unique wardrobe, opened each show, performing as many as up to seven songs, followed by a musical interlude and a costume change, with Amos taking over as herself and playing without gimmick for the remaining two-thirds of the show. Three exceptions were the San Diego and Los Angeles shows, where two dolls opened, and the Anaheim performance, where two dolls opened and one of them returned for the encore.

"Big Wheel" was released as the first radio single in the United States, prior to the album's release. Multiple radio stations refused to give the song any airtime because the acronym "MILF" is repeated in the bridge. Despite this hiccup, the single was successful on Triple A radio. The record label re-issued the single with the "MILF" bridge replaced with Amos singing "MI-MI". "Big Wheel" charted at no. 12 on "Billboard"s Bubbling Under Hot 100 chart as well as reaching no. 12 on the Triple-A charts.

"Bouncing off Clouds" served as the first single in Europe and as the second single in the United States. "Almost Rosey" was issued as the third single as an internet-only release through MySpace. Neither of the two singles charted in the US. Following the trend set by her previous releases with Epic, all three singles released from "American Doll Posse" were promo-only, and no commercial singles were produced.

For the first time in Amos's career, no official music videos were produced by the artist for any of the singles from the album, although a clip featuring still images from the record's promotional shoot was issued as an accompaniment to "Big Wheel". For "Bouncing Off Clouds", clips of Amos singing and playing the piano against a neutral background were released and encouraged fans to edit their own music videos as a competition. The winning contribution featured animation but did not qualify for release, as the contestant was not American. The single release of "Almost Rosey" was accompanied by studio footage of Amos performing the song live on piano.

"American Doll Posse" was met with generally favourable reviews, with most criticism being directed not at the musical content but towards the extensive concept as a potential turn-off for casual listeners. Another point of critique for some reviewers was the album's 23 tracks and long running time. Most reviewers were pleased that both the lyrics and the musical production was noticeably more edgy and confrontational than the preceding "The Beekeeper" (2005). Most reviewers found "American Doll Posse" to contain some of Amos' best material since the mid 1990s.

"Rolling Stone"s reviewer gave the album 3 of 5 stars and found that it was best without the extensive concept surrounding much of the music, stating that "there's way too much conceptual malarkey surrounding the songs, but if you can ignore her fake posse, you'll find this is Amos' best album in many years". Sputnikmusic gave a 3-star review, calling it a "return to form – sort of". The review from "PopMatters" was very positive, with an 8/10 score, praising Amos' assured vocals as "top form" and finding "moments of jaw-dropping virtuosity", but also criticising the length of the album and lack of editing. "SPIN" gave a glowing review, giving the record a 9/10 score, calling it "arguably the singer/pianist's greatest, and undeniably sexiest, album" and "instantly memorable". "Entertainment Weekly" gave the album a C+ review, calling it a "conceptual wreck" but appreciating the freshness of Amos engaging in glam-rock territory. "Mojo", "Billboard", and "NOW Magazine" likewise advised Amos to avoid heavy-handed concepts, giving the album average reviews. "Slant Magazine" gave "American Doll Posse" 3.5 of 5 stars, criticising the structure as alienating but finding the music itself to be Amos' best since "From the Choirgirl Hotel" (1998), especially favoring the lead single "Big Wheel" as a straightforward and lively song. MusicOMH gave a 4-star review, calling it a coherent and intriguing record, albeit a bit inaccessible conceptually. "The Boston Globe" was very positive, hailing the record as "a lush sprawl of an album that works with or without the feminist playbook".

Upon its US release, the album entered the "Billboard" 200 at no. 5, selling 54.000 copies, making it Amos' sixth album to debut in the US Top 10 Albums chart, a feat shared by very few other female artists Twenty-five percent of the first week's sales were digital, an increasing figure as per general market trends. In 2008, the album was reported to have sold 152,000 copies in the US, according to Nielsen SoundScan.

The album's debut at no. 5 is the same debut position as "The Beekeeper", although "American Doll Posse" sold fewer units in its week of release. This decrease is partially explained by the overall decline of sales in the music industry. At the time of the album's release, overall music sales for 2007 were down over 16% from the previous year's.

In the United Kingdom, limited-edition copies of the album were ruled to be ineligible for the UK Top 40 chart due to the inclusion of free art cards depicting each of the Posse members. Such promotional items were seen as giving "too much" of an additional sales incentive compared to normal releases, and thus giving unfair advantage. Faced with this, Amos deliberately chose not to issue a reduced packaging version of the special edition (as had been done with "Scarlet's Walk"), opting to keep the artwork intact.

Adapted from the album's liner notes.



Under the Pink

Under the Pink is the second solo album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released January 31, 1994. Four singles were released from it. The third single, "Cornflake Girl", reached number 4 on the UK Singles Chart. The album went straight to number 1 in the UK. 

In Australia and New Zealand a special version of "Under the Pink" was released called "More Pink: The B-Sides". It had a second disc with the album's fourteen B-sides.

Abnormally Attracted to Sin

Abnormally Attracted to Sin is the tenth solo studio album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released May 19, 2009. Amos made the album in Cornwall.

Gold Dust (Tori Amos album)

Gold Dust is the thirteenth solo studio album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released on October 1, 2012 by Deutsche Grammophon and Mercury Classics. One single was released from it, "Flavor".

Tavi Gevinson

Tavi Gevinson (born April 21, 1996) is an American writer and blogger. In 2008 she started a blog called "Style Rookie". She posted pictures of herself wearing outfits and wrote about the latest fashion trends. The blog was successful. Due to its success Gevinson was asked to go to New York Fashion Week and Paris Fashion Week. In autumn 2011, Gevinson made a website called "Rookie". Rookie is an internet magazine for teenage girls.

Gevinson was born in Chicago to a Jewish family. Gevinson is going to go to a university in the East Coast. She is a feminist.

Gevinson acted for the first time in the 2008 short film "First Bass". In September 2009 she was on the cover of Pop magazine. That month she was interviewed by Pixie Geldof for Love magazine.

In January 2011 Gevinson interviewed Gwen Stefani for Teen Vogue. In September 2011 Gevinson started an internet magazine called Rookie. She is also its editor. In 5 days it had been viewed over 1 million times. Lady Gaga called her the "future of journalism". Gevinson was invited to TedxWomen in New York. She met Gloria Steinem there and gave her a short interview.

In January 2013 she was interviewed by CNN and Steven Colbert. A documentary about Kathleen Hanna called The Punk Singer was released in March 2013. Gevinson was interviewed in it. In May 2013 she interviewed Emma Watson. In June 2013 she interviewed Sofia Coppola and Greta Gerwig. In October 2013 "Enough Said", a movie she acted in, was released. In November 2013 Gevinson modelled for Cole Haan's Christmas advert. Gevinson's face was on the cover of the first internet-only issue of BULLETT Magazine in November 2013.


Tribal Hidage

The Tribal Hidage is generally considered to be a list dated to 7th or 8th century Anglo-Saxon England. It was a list of 35 tribes that made up the majority of the peoples living in southern England at that time. Each tribe or kingdom on the list had a rounded off number of hides (units of land measurement). Modern historians believe it was created by either Mercian or Northumbrian overlords to collect tribute from the other groups.

The Tribal Hidage is an important historical document. The oldest copies available were written in style of the 11th century. This is at a time when many of the names of the earlier regions had been forgotten. In some cases the list is the only evidence that a region or people of that name ever existed. There were probably older versions of the Tribal Hidage and may have dated back to when Penda of Mercia dominated Anglo-Saxon England (642–655).

Historians are mixed when it comes to where the document came from originally. It may have been written by Paulinus for King Edwin of Northumbria. It may have been created for the use of Offa of Mercia. Others have not suggested a place or reign, but a particular period of time for when it was probably written—between 670-690. Historians are not certain what the exact reason was for creating the list. Most seem to agree it was probably a tribute list. There are signs that the list was updated over a period of time. So it may have had more than one purpose.

The text in the original documents is corrupt. Not every name can be clearly read. The names on the list are for tribal groups of peoples and not for districts or regions they lived in. Three different revisions have been identified by historian David Dumville. These are called A, Recension B, and Recension C.

The first part of the list had 20 names. At the end of the first group is a total number of hides of land given as 66, 100. The numbers of hides for each group add up to 66,100 so the number is correct. The second group of 15 names has a total under it listed at 242,700 hides. But this is incorrect. If you add up the hides for each of the names in this group it totals 244,100. These are almost certainly math errors.

Of the first or primary part of the list contained several recognized peoples:


This part of the list seems to have been added:


Ed

Ed, ed or ED can refer to several things:



TLC: Tables, Ladders &amp; Chairs (2012)

TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on December 16, 2012 at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. It was the fourth TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs event held by the WWE.


Quvenzhané Wallis

Quvenzhané Wallis (born August 28, 2003) is an American actress. Wallis' first movie was "Beasts of the Southern Wild". She got nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress. This made her the youngest person ever to be nominated for the award. 

Wallis played Margaret Northup in the 2013 movie "12 Years a Slave". Wallis also played Annie in a remake of the musical "Annie". Wallis does the voice of Almitra in the animated movie "The Prophet". 

Wallis was born in Houma, Louisiana.

To Venus and Back

To Venus and Back is the fifth album by Tori Amos. It was released on 20 September 1999 in the United Kingdom and on September 21, 1999 in the United States. The album has two discs. The first disc is called "Venus: Orbiting". It has eleven new songs. The second disc is called " Venus Live: Still Orbiting". It is thirteen recordings of song performances Amos made in her Plugged '98 tour. The album was nominated for Best Alternative Music Album and Amos was nominated for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance for the song "Bliss" at the 2000 Grammy Awards. In 1999, Amos did a tour for the album, the "Five and a Half Weeks Tour".

Steve McQueen (director)

Steven Rodney "Steve" McQueen, CBE (born 9 October 1969) is a British movie director and artist. He has directed four feature films.

McQueen was born in London and is of Grenadian descent. He went to Drayton Manor High School. After doing A Level art at Hammersmith and West London College he went to Goldsmiths College, University of London. It was there that he made his first short films.

In 1993 his first major movie "Bear" was shown at the Royal College of Art in London. It is black and white and there is no sound in it. In 1999 McQueen won the Turner Prize. In 2008 "Hunger" was released. It was the first feature film directed and written by McQueen. McQueen is making a drama for HBO. He directed "Shame" (2011) "12 Years a Slave" (2013) and "Widows" (2018).

McQueen lives in Amsterdam with Bianca Stigter. 

Adora Svitak

Adora Lily Svitak (born October 15, 1997) is an American child prodigy. When she was seven her first book, "Flying Fingers", was published around the world. Her second book, "Dancing Fingers", was published in April 2008. In January 2009 Channel 4 showed a documentary about gifted children called "The World's Cleverest Child and Me". Svitak was in it. On March 14, 2011 her first novel, "Yang in Disguise", was published. In February 2010 Svitak gave a talk for TED called "What Adults Can Learn From Kids". 

Her mother, Joyce Can Zou Svitak, was born in China. She moved to the US in 1988. Her father, John Svitak, is a fourth generation Czech Republic migrant. He is a science and maths teacher.
Svitak is a feminist. She lives in Seattle. She goes to Redmond High School.


Louise Diane d'Orléans

Louise Diane d'Orléans (27 June 1716 – 26 September 1736) was the last child of Philippe d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans ("Regent of the Kingdom" from 1715 to 1723) and his wife, Françoise Marie de Bourbon, the youngest illegitimate daughter of King Louis XIV of France and his mistress, Madame de Montespan. The Princess of Conti by marriage, she died in childbirth at the age of twenty. Some sources refer to her as "Louis Diane". The princess used the name Louise.

Louise Diane d'Orléans was born in the Palais-Royal, the Paris residence of the House of Orléans, on 27 June 1716 as the youngest child of the Duke and Duchess of Orléans. Elizabeth Charlotte of the Palatinate was her fathers mother and was not impressed at the thought of having another granddaughter

Her siblings were:


Until her marriage, she was known as "Mademoiselle de Chartres ". known as "Mademoiselle de Chartres". She grew up with her younger sister Élisabeth with a convent education. Her sister would later become the Queen of Spain. 

Louise grew up in an era when her father, known as "Philippe d'Orléans" or simply "le Régent" was the ruler of France, him being in charge of the affairs of state since the death of Louis XIV. The Palais-Royal was where the Régent held his court and lived openly with his mistress.

In her youth, she was said to have been a very sensitive child and would grow up to be one of the more beautiful of the Regent's daughters. Despite her being another girl, (1 of 7 overall), her birth was not really greeted with the joy that had met her brother, Louis d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans.

In December 1731, it was decided that she should marry her distant cousin Louis François de Bourbon, Prince of Conti. Her marriage was arranged by her mother Françoise Marie, "Dowager Duchess of Orléans" and her first cousin (and subsequent mother in law) Louise Élisabeth, "Dowager Princess of Conti".

She was baptised on 19 January 1732 by the Cardinal of Rohan and she married the Prince of Conti three days later, on 22 January. The marriage ceremony took place at the Palace of Versailles. Louise was then fifteen years old. At her wedding, her cousin Élisabeth Alexandrine de Bourbon held her train.

After the marriage, she became known at court as Her Serene Highness, the Princess of Conti. Her husband had succeeded to the Conti title in 1727 upon the death of his father, Louis Armand II, Prince of Conti. In 1734, Louise gave birth to a son, heir to the Conti name, and, in 1736, to a second child who died at birth.

Louise died in childbirth on 26 September 1736 outside Paris. She was buried at the Saint-André-des-Arcs church. Her only surviving son, Louis François Joseph, was the last Prince of Conti.



Mjölby

Mjölby is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mjölby Municipality.

Ödeshög

Ödeshög is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ödeshög Municipality.

Bollebygd

Bollebygd is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bollebygd Municipality.

Kinna

Kinna is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mark Municipality.

Nyasasaurus

Nyasasaurus ("Lake Nyasa lizard") is an extinct genus of Archosaur reptile from the Middle Triassic Manda Beds of Tanzania. It may be the earliest known dinosaur. The discovery was a handful of bones from two individuals, so its anatomy is only partly known. The bones were collected in the early 1930s, but have only recently been analysed.

Researchers said: ""Nyasasaurus" possesses a unique combination of dinosaur character states and an elevated growth rate similar to that of definitive early dinosaurs. It demonstrates that the initial dinosaur radiation occurred over a longer timescale than previously thought (possibly 15 million years earlier)".

The find was six vertebrae and a humerus from one specimen, and five vertebrae from another. The humerus has a muscle attachment which is characteristic of dinosaurs (a long 'deltopectoral crest'). Other features are consistent with its being a basal dinosaur.

Previously, the oldest record of dinosaurs was from Argentina and dated back to the Upper Triassic Carnian stage, about 231.4 million years ago (mya). "Nyasasaurus" comes from a deposit that dates back to the Middle Triassic Anisian stage, meaning that it predates other early dinosaurs by about 15 million years.

Degerfors

Degerfors is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Degerfors Municipality.

Österbymo

Österbymo is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ydre Municipality.

Lerum

Lerum is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lerum Municipality.

Kungsängen

Kungsängen is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Upplands-Bro Municipality.

Upplands Väsby

Upplands Väsby is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Upplands Väsby Municipality.

Årjäng

Årjäng is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Årjäng Municipality.

Avesta, Sweden

Avesta is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Avesta Municipality.

Kumla

Kumla is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Kumla Municipality. Kumla is well-known for the Kumla Prison.

Hallsberg

Hallsberg is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Hallsberg Municipality. Hallsberg is well-known for its railroad junctions.

Laxå

Laxå is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Laxå Municipality.

Munkedal

Munkedal is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Munkedal Municipality.

Emmaboda

Emmaboda is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Emmaboda Municipality.

Nödinge-Nol

Nödinge-Nol is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ale Municipality.

Osby

Osby is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Osby Municipality.

Älmhult

Älmhult is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Älmhult Municipality.

Kil, Kil Municipality

Kil is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kil Municipality.

Bengtsfors

Bengtsfors is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bengtsfors Municipality.

Åkersberga

Åkersberga is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Östhammar Municipality.

Vaxholm

Vaxholm is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Vaxholm Municipality.

Skurup

Skurup is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Skurup Municipality.

Bromölla

Bromölla is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Bromölla Municipality.

Eksjö

Eksjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Eksjö Municipality.

Gnosjö

Gnosjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Gnosjö Municipality. In business management, Gnosjö is well known for the Gnosjö Spirit ().

Vara

Vara is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vara Municipality.

Nybro

Nybro is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Nybro Municipality.

Sigtuna

Sigtuna is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is in Sigtuna Municipality. Sigtuna is famous for the Sigtuna boarding school.

Märsta

Märsta is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Sigtuna Municipality.

Tumba

Tumba is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is within both Botkyrka Municipality and Salem Municipality.

Sjöbo

Sjöbo is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Sjöbo Municipality.

Fagersta

Fagersta is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Fagersta Municipality.

Forshaga

Forshaga is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Forshaga Municipality.

Heby

Heby is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Heby Municipality.

Lysekil

Lysekil is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lysekil Municipality.

Alingsås

Alingsås is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Alingsås Municipality.

Skoghall

Skoghall is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hammarö Municipality.

Alafors

Alafors is a former urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in the Ale Municipality.

Boxholm

Boxholm is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Boxholm Municipality.

Arlöv

Arlöv is a place in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Burlöv Municipality.

Båstad

Båstad is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Båstad Municipality. In July every year, the Swedish Open international tennis tournament is played here.

Charlottenberg

Charlottenberg is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Eda Municipality.

Ekerö

Ekerö is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Ekerö Municipality.

Eslöv

Eslöv is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Eslöv Municipality.

Nossebro

Nossebro is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Essunga Municipality.

Finspång

Finspång is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Finspång Municipality.

Färgelanda

Färgelanda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Färgelanda Municipality.

Gnesta

Gnesta is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Gnesta Municipality. Parts of the urban area span into Södertälje Municipality within Stockholm County.

Grästorp

Grästorp is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Grästorp Municipality.

Gullspång

Gullspång is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Gullspång Municipality.

Mölnlycke

Mölnlycke is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Härryda Municipality. Parts of the urban area are located within Mölndal Municipality.

Götene

Götene is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Götene Municipality.

The Simpsons Skateboarding

The Simpsons: Skateboarding is a sports video game based on the animated television show "The Simpsons". It was released for the PlayStation 2 in 2002. The game involves the different characters of the show taking part in a skateboarding contest across Springfield. 

Töreboda

Töreboda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Töreboda Municipality.

Markaryd

Markaryd is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Markaryd Municipality.

Hagfors

Hagfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hagfors Municipality.

Handen

Handen is an place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Haninge Municipality.

Herrljunga

Herrljunga is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Herrljunga Municipality.

Hässleholm

Hässleholm is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Hässleholm Municipality.

Höganäs

Höganäs is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Höganäs Municipality.

Högsby

Högsby is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Högsby Municipality.

Jakobsberg

Jakobsberg is a place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Järfälla Municipality.

Kisa

Kisa is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kinda Municipality. In May 1999, a bank robbery was carried out here, famous for its connection to the Malexander Police Murders.

Knivsta

Knivsta is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Knivsta Municipality.

Kungsör

Kungsör is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungsör Municipality.

Kävlinge

Kävlinge is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Kävlinge Municipality.

Fjugesta

Fjugesta is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Lekeberg Municipality.

Lessebo

Lessebo is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Lessebo Municipality.

Ljungby

Ljungby is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Ljungby Municipality. In 2015 there lived 15,785 people in Ljungby.

The first know persons to live in the area around Ljungby was Astrad and Götrad. Astrad and Götrad lived during the Viking Age in the 11th century. We know about them because Götrad made a runestone, The Replösa Stone, for his dead father Astrad.

The first stone church was built in during the 12th century. It was built with the creation of Ljungby parish.

In the 14th century an inn was built in Ljungby by order of the king. They built it because Ljungby lies were two big trade routes cross.

During the 17th and 18th century the inn was owned by a woman named Märta Ljungberg. Märta Ljungberg earned a lot of money from the inn. She used some of the money to buy twelve other farms. The town of Ljungby would later be built on these twelve farms.

In the beginning of the 19th century there was a need of a town in Sunnerbo hundred. There were two places that would fit a town. One was Berga and the other was Ljungby. Berga had got permission to form a town during the 13th century, but the town had never been formed. Ljungby was located more central in Sunnerbo hundred and had better road connections. In the end it was decided that the town should be built in Ljungby.

Sometime between 1828 and 1830 the area known as Ljungby was made into a "friköping". A "friköping" is a type of smaller town, but it does not have the same town privileges as a formal town. The new town Ljungby was founded on the ground donated by Märta Ljungberg.

In 1878 the first railroad was built in Ljungby. The railroad went from Vislanda, via Ljungby, to Bolmen. After some years it had been connected with other railroads and went to Karlshamn in east and to Halmstad in west. In 1899 the north-south railroad "Skåne–Smålands Railroad" opened.

During the 20th century Ljungby expanded with the help of workshops and wood industry. The biggest expansion was between 1940 and 1960.

In 1953, during the night between 4 July and 5 July, there was a big town fire in Ljungby. The fire had damaged twenty buildings. Thirty families became homeless and 96 persons lost their job.

In 1970 the "Karlshamn–Vislanda–Bolmens Railroad" was closed down. Less and less cargo was being transported by train and was instead replaced by lorries.

The last train in Ljungby passed in 1997 when the cargo route Helmershus-Ljungby ended. After the railroad was removed, much of the former tracks have been converted into bicycle paths.

The first college in Ljungby opened in 2002, Högskolecentrum Ljungby. It cooperates with the three nearby universities Linnaeus University, Jönköping University, and Halmstad University.

Ljungby have been the home of several cultural persons. Among others, the cinematographer Gunnar Fischer and the writers Folke Fridell, Lennart Williams, and Sölve Rydell. Ljungby does also have two museums, a library, a theater, and a cinema.
Ljungbergmuseet, or "The Ljungberg Museum" in English, is a museum with paintings in Ljungby. The museum do always show paintings and other art pieces by Sven Ljungberg and his wife Ann Margret Dahlquist-Ljungberg. They do also show other temporary exhibitions by other artists.

The museum was built in 1990 and was made bigger in 2002. The museum was designed by the architect Pontus Ljungberg. Pontus Ljungberg is the son of Sven Ljungberg and Ann Margret Dahlquist-Ljungberg.

In 2012 it was decided that the museum should become Kronoberg's official museum of visual art.
Sagomuseet , or "The Museum of Legends" in English, is a museum about folklore in Ljungby. The museum show old legends and fairytales that have been told around Ljungby and Kronoberg. The museum have also put up signs around Kronoberg that tell stories about the location.

Every year the museum have a storytelling festival, Berättarfestivalen. During "Berättarfestivalen" people gather to listen to storytellers from around the world.

In 2013 the owners of "The Museum of Legends", the "Storytelling Network Kronoberg," became an advisor to Swedish UNESCO about the intangible cultural heritage.

Ljungby kommunbibliotek , or "Ljungby library" in English, is visited by 500 to 800 people per day. The library also haves a café and a small art gallery. The library was built in 1982, but there have been other libraries in Ljungby since 1920.

Ljungby library is responsible for smaller libraries in Lagan, Ryssby, and Lidhult. Ljungby library do also have a mobile library, a bus filled with bookshelves. They use this bus to reach people who live in small places around Ljungby Municipality.

Lomma

Lomma is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Lomma Municipality.

Kopparberg

Kopparberg is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Ljusnarsberg Municipality.

Orsa

Orsa is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Orsa Municipality.

Ludvika

Ludvika is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Ludvika Municipality.

Perstorp

Perstorp is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Perstorp Municipality.

Partille

Partille is a former urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Partille Municipality.

Salem, Sweden

Salem is a place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Salem Municipality, and part of the Tumba urban area.

Simrishamn

Simrishamn is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Simrishamn Municipality.

Skinnskatteberg

Skinnskatteberg is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Skinnskatteberg Municipality.

Kungshamn

Kungshamn is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sotenäs Municipality.

Svalöv

Svalöv is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Svalöv Municipality.

Svedala

Svedala is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Svedala Municipality.

Svenljunga

Svenljunga is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Svenljunga Municipality.

Bollmora

Bollmora is a former urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Tyresö Municipality.

Säffle

Säffle is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Säffle Municipality.

Sävsjö

Sävsjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Sävsjö Municipality.

Säter

Säter is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Säter Municipality.

Tibro

Tibro is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tibro Municipality.

Tierp

Tierp is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Tierp Municipality.

Tingsryd

Tingsryd is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Tingsryd Municipality.

Tomelilla

Tomelilla is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Tomelilla Municipality.

Torsby

Torsby is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Torsby Municipality.

Torsås

Torsås is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Torsås Municipality.

Tranemo

Tranemo is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tranemo Municipality.

Trosa

Trosa is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Trosa Municipality.

Täby

Täby is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Täby Municipality, but parts of it span into Danderyd Municipality and Sollentuna Municipality.

Valdemarsvik

Valdemarsvik is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Valdemarsvik Municipality.

Vallentuna

Vallentuna is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Vallentuna Municipality, but also spans into Täby Municipality.

Vansbro

Vansbro is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Vansbro Municipality.

Vellinge

Vellinge is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Vellinge Municipality.

Vingåker

Vingåker is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vingåker Municipality.

Vårgårda

Vårgårda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vårgårda Municipality.

Åtvidaberg

Åtvidaberg is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Åtvidaberg Municipality.

Öckerö

Öckerö is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Öckerö Municipality.

Östhammar

Östhammar is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Östhammar Municipality.

Breathe Carolina

Breathe Carolina is an American electronic rock group from Denver, Colorado. It formed in early 2006. Its members are lead vocalist David Schmitt, drummer Eric Armenta, keyboardist Luis Bonet, and guitarist Tommy Cooperman. The band is best known for their successful single "Blackout", released in June 2011. It peaked at number 17 on the U.S. Billboard Pop Songs chart. Since 2008, the band has released three full-length studio albums: "It's Classy, Not Classic", "Hello Fascination", and "Hell Is What You Make It".

The group has also been featured on many compilation albums, such as "Punk Goes Pop 2", "Warped Tour 2010", "Punk Goes Pop 3", "Tis the Season to be Fearless", and "Punk Goes Pop 5". Breathe Carolina's covers include "Down" by Jay Sean, "See You Again" by Miley Cyrus, and "Billie Jean" by Michael Jackson. 

On July 6, 2013, the band released a mixtape titled "Bangers", featuring three songs.

The band is set to released their upcoming fourth studio album, "Savages", in early 2014. The single "Savages" was released on November 26, 2013.


It's Classy, Not Classic

It's Classy, Not Classic is the debut studio album by electronicore band Breathe Carolina. It was released on September 16, 2008 in the United States. It was released by Rise Records. The single "Diamonds" was released in February, 2009. The album charted at No. 186 on the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart.

The album has been compared to other artists such as Jeffree Star and Blood on the Dancefloor.

Hello Fascination

Hello Fascination is an album by electronicore band Breathe Carolina. It is their second full-length studio album. It was released on August 18, 2009 through Fearless Records in the United States and Canada.

The lead single "Welcome to Savannah" was released on July 7, 2009. The second single, "Hello Fascination", was released on February 2, 2010. It gained the group minor success. The third and final single, "I.D.G.A.F.", was released in July of 2010. The album charted at number 43 on the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart. It also peaked at number 2 on the Billboard Dance/Electronic Albums chart.

The album was produced by Mike Green and Matthew Squire. They have also worked with Good Charlotte, All Time Low, 3OH!3, Boys Like Girls, and Panic! At the Disco.

The album was released on August 18, 2009. It peaked at number 43 on the Billboard 200. It spent about two weeks on the chart. It also appeared in the Rock, Alternative, Independent, and Dance/Electronic Album Charts.

A deluxe edition was released exclusively through iTunes on July 6, 2010. It includes five bonus songs, three remixes, and a music video. "Hello Fascination" and "The Dressing Room" can be downloaded for the iPhone application Tap Tap Revenge.

NXT Championship

The NXT Championship is a professional wrestling championship in the WWE. The title is an NXT-only championship.

The title was introduced by NXT Commissioner Dusty Rhodes. Rhodes said that there would be a "Gold Rush" tournament that would feature 4 developmental roster NXT Superstars and 4 main roster WWE Superstars and that they would compete to be crowned as the inaugural NXT Champion. Seth Rollins became the first champion after he defeated Jinder Mahal in the final round. At in November 2016, Samoa Joe became the first wrestler to win the championship twice.

Bo Dallas was the youngest champion, winning the title 2 days before his 23rd birthday. Samoa Joe was the oldest champion at 42 years old.

The current champion is Ilja Dragunov who is in his first reign. He won the championship by beating Carmelo Hayes at NXT No Mercy on September 30.


David Sedaris

David Sedaris is an American comedian and writer. His first book, "Barrel Fever", was published 1994. Half of the book is short stories. The other half is essays Sedaris wrote about himself. In 1997, he published another collection of essays, "Naked". It won the Randy Shilts Award for Gay Non-Fiction in 1998. In 1999, "Me Talk Pretty One Day" was published. "Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim" was published 2004. Sedaris was recorded reading the book for the "Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim" audiobook. It was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album.

In 1992 Sedaris read an essay that he wrote called "SantaLand Diaries" on NPR. People liked it. After this he read an essay for NPR each month. Little, Brown and Company agreed to publish his first two books.

Sedaris was born in Binghamton in New York. He grew up in Raleigh, North Carolina.

River Don, South Yorkshire

The River Don (also called the "Dun" in some sections) is a river in South Yorkshire, England. It begins in the Pennines and flows for eastwards, through the Don Valley. It originally joined with the Trent, but was re-engineered in the 1620s, and now joins the River Ouse at Goole in the East Riding of Yorkshire. 
The Don can be divided into sections by the different types of structures built to restrict its passage. The upper section has dams built to provide a public water supply. The middle section contains many weirs, which were built to power water wheels. The lower section contains weirs and locks, designed to allow for river navigation. 

The Don's major tributaries are the Loxley, the Rivelin, the Sheaf, the Rother and the Dearne. The Don gets its name from Dôn (or Danu), a Celtic mother goddess. The river gave its name to the Don River in Ontario, which runs through Toronto, Canada.

Artpop

Artpop (styled in all capital letters) is the third studio album by American recording artist Lady Gaga. It was released on November 11, 2013. The album was mainly produced by Gaga along with DJ White Shadow and Zedd, among other producers.

Two official singles have been released from the album. The first single "Applause" was released in August 2013 and has reached #4 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and Canadian Hot 100, while reaching number five in the United Kingdom. The second single, "Do What U Want," was released on October 21, 2013. Written with R. Kelly, it has peaked at #13 on the Hot 100. The song also reached the top ten in Canada and the UK. In 2019, Gaga had the song removed from online music services after the release of the documentary "Surviving R. Kelly." On January 1, 2014, Gaga released a remix of the song with singer Christina Aguilera"." "G.U.Y." was released as the album's third single and charted moderately.

Both singles reached the top ten of "Billboard"'s Mainstream Top 40 (Pop Songs) radio chart, reaching #4 and #7, respectively.

The album debuted at #1 in many countries, particularly in the United States on the "Billboard" 200 album chart and the UK Albums Chart. "Artpop" sold 258,000 copies in its first week in America and became Gaga's second number-one album in the US, after "Born This Way".




Tony Sirico

Genaro Anthony "Tony" Sirico, Jr. (July 29, 1942 – July 8, 2022) was an American actor. He was known for his role as the mobster Paulie "Walnuts" Gualtieri in the television series "The Sopranos" and Tony Sacks in the Martin Scorsese movie "Goodfellas". He also provided the voice of Vinny Griffin on the sitcom "Family Guy".

Sirico died on July 8, 2022 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida from problems caused by dementia at the age of 79.

Chico Hamilton

Chico Hamilton (Foreststorn Hamilton, September 20, 1921 – November 25, 2013) was an American jazz drummer and bandleader.

Hamilton was born Foreststorn Hamilton in Los Angeles, California on September 20, 1921. His brother was actor Bernie Hamilton. Hamilton died on November 25, 2013 in Manhattan, New York from unknown causes, aged 92.


Bloody Sunday (1972)

Bloody Sunday ()—sometimes called the Bogside Massacre—happened on 30 January 1972, in the Bogside area of Londonderry, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. During this protest against internment, some protesters threw stones. 26 unarmed civil rights protesters and spectators were shot by British soldiers. Thirteen males, most of whom were in their teens and twenties, were killed. A fourteenth man died from his injuries four-and-a-half months later. Two protesters were also hit by army vehicles. Five of the wounded were shot in the back. The incident happened during a Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association march. The soldiers involved were members of the First Battalion of the Parachute Regiment (1 Para).

Two investigations have been held by the British government. The Widgery Tribunal, held soon after the event, said that the soldiers and British authorities were almost reckless. Critics said the report made it seem like the British did nothing wrong. The Saville Inquiry was held in 1998 to investigate the events a second time. The inquiry took 12 years. The report was made public on 15 June 2010. The report said that some soldiers were wrong to have shot the protesters. The report found that all of the people shot were unarmed, and that the killings were "unjustified". When the Saville report was published, the British prime minister, David Cameron, said sorry to the victims.

The Provisional Irish Republican Army's (IRA) war against the partition of Ireland had begun in the two years before the incident. The incident helped the IRA to recruit new members. Bloody Sunday remains among the most important events in the Troubles of Northern Ireland. The reason it is seen as so important is because those who died were shot by the British Army rather than paramilitaries.

Silliness

Silliness is when a person acts like a fool, or shows a lack of good sense or judgment. In television, movies, and the circus, silliness such as exaggerated, funny behavior is used to make audiences laugh. Clowns and jesters act in a silly way to make people feel better.

In "The Art of Roughhousing", Anthony DeBenedet and Larry Cohen say that "wild play" between a child and a parent can cause "joy, love and a deeper connection". They say parents should be silly and pretend, for example, to fall over.

Michael Christianson from New York's Big Apple Circus teaches jesters, clowns and comedians how to help hospital patients feel better. A doctor named Patch Adams travels to places where there is crisis or suffering to help people feel better.

In the U.S. and Mexico, the practical joke group Improv Everywhere has created an "international celebration of silliness" by asking people to get on the New York and Mexico City subways without trousers on a specific day.

Maven (wrestler)

Maven Klint Huffman (born March 26, 1976) is a retired American professional wrestler. He is best known for working with World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment under his real first name.

He was the co-winner of the first season of Tough Enough along with Nidia Guenard. During his time in the WWF/E, he had notable feuds with The Undertaker after Maven eliminated Undertaker from the 2002 Royal Rumble and Evolution. He also won the WWF Hardcore Championship three times.

He currently works as a bouncer in New York City.



Saar Offensive

The Saar Offensive was a French ground offensive (attack) into Saarland during World War II from 7 to 16 September 1939. This area of Saarland was defended by the German 1st Army. The purpose of the attack was to help Poland, which was under attack at the time. The offensive was to have been done by 40 divisions, including one armored division, three mechanised divisions, 78 artillery regiments and 40 tank battalions. The offensive was stopped and the French forces eventually retreated when the Germans attacked them on 17 October.

Battle of Hatfield Chase

The Battle of Hatfield Chase was fought on 12 October 633 at Hatfield Chase near Doncaster in present-day Yorkshire. The pagan King Penda of Mercia and the Christian king of Gynedd, Cadwallon ap Cadfan joined forces to attack Northumbria.

King Edwin met them in the southern part of his kingdom. In the battle Edwin was killed and his army was defeated. Cadwallon destroyed as much of Northumbria as he could. This led to the end of Northumbrian dominance over southern England for a short time.

Edwin of Northumbria (ruled 616–633) was recognized as overlord over all of Britain. In his wars he conquered the kingdom of Elmet (western Yorkshire). He then drove out its king, Cerdic. This gave him access all the way to the Irish Sea. Elmet was one of the last kingdoms of the Britons.

Edwin next moved against Wales: he invaded the Welsh north and captured Anglesey. He drove Cadwallon to the far eastern part of the island and laid siege to him at Priestholme. This caused Cadwallon, a Christian king, to ally himself with Penda, the pagan king of Mercia. Cadwallon's motive was revenge on the powerful Northumbrian ruler who had invaded his kingdom. Penda resented Northumbria's being Christianized by Kent. He also wanted Edwin's power over the other kingdoms.

The site of the battle suggests Edwin and his forces may have had to fight on ground not suited for defence. He may have been trapped by the grassy wetlands to the north and the river Don to the east. The armies of Cadwallon and Penda came at him from the west. In the battle one of Edwin's sons, Osfrid, was killed before his father. Edwin was killed and his army scattered. Another son, Eadfrith, was taken prisoner by Penda. Edwin's queen escaped to Kent with two of her children, Osfrid's young son and Bishop Paulinus.

Cadwallon and Penda began slaughtering the people of Northumbria. This included men, women and children. Cadwallon, according to Bede, although Christian was more barbarous than any pagan. Northumbria fell apart and divided back into its two former kingdoms of Deira and Bernicia. Oswald reunited Deira and Bernicia back into Northumbria. As King he restored Northumbria to the power it had under Edwin.

Big John Studd

John Minton (February 19, 1948 – March 20, 1995) was an American professional wrestler and actor.

He is known for competing in the World Wrestling Federation from 1982 to 1986 and from 1988 to 1989. Minton was also an actor in both .

Minton died on March 20, 1995 from liver cancer and Hodgkin's disease. Lou Albano revealed in 2000 that Minton had also suffered from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Minton was inducted into the WCW Hall of Fame in 1995 and the WWE Hall of Fame by Big Show in 2004.


World Wide Wrestling Federation/World Wrestling Entertainment


What About Your Friends

"What About Your Friends" is a song by TLC. It is the third single from their debut album, "Ooooooohhh... On the TLC Tip". It reached #7 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. This made it the group's third consecutive top-ten single.

The Favor

The Favor is a 1994 romantic-comedy movie. It is about friendship betrayals and heartbreak. "The Favor" was shot in 1990 although not released until late April-early May in 1994. Elizabeth McGovern and Brad Pitt are part of the cast. The reviews of the movie were not good.

Anne Anastasi

Anne Anastasi (December 19 1908 – May 4 2001) is one of the founders of American Psychology and contributed to Psychometrics. She helped improve psychological testing. She wrote a textbook, Psychological Testing, which is still used today. She made psychological testing more reliable and personal. She also helped improve the number of women in going into psychology.

Anne Anatasi was born on December 19th 1908 in New York City. Anne's father was Anthony Anastasi and her mother was Theresa Gauiosi. When Anne was young her father died, which left her and her mother very distant from her father’s side of the family. Due to the death of her father, her family was in desperate need of money. Anne's mother took on many different jobs such as bookkeeping, opening up her own piano store, and working for an Italian newspaper to support the family. Since her mother was always busy working, Anne’s grandmother took care of her and taught her at home because she believed that public education was bad for her. Due to her home schooling, when she went to public school she had difficulties because the classes were overcrowded. Eventually, Anne would go to public school. The school Anne went to was PS 3 and Evander Childs High School Bronx, New York. Due to the difficulty of public school and family problems she was often in and out of school but eventually graduated and went to a private school called Rhodes Preparatory school. At the age of 15, in 1923, she was accepted into Barnard College.

Annie’s favorite subject was math. Once she entered Barnard College she fell in love with psychology and switched subjects because of a famous psychologist named Charles Spearman and her college Professor Harry Hollingworth. Anne would eventually become a professor at Barnard. During her stay at Barnard College, Anne completed her PH.D at Columbia University. Later on she would teach at Queens College and Fordham College in New York.

Anne made many contributions to psychology. She changed the way people thought about human action and emphasized that humans are unique people. She was more interested in individual differences among people than in descriptions of average people. Individual differences are the behaviors and ways of thinking that make one person different from another. On May 4th 2001 in New York, Anne died but her ideas and her scientific research continue to influence psychology.

In 1937 Anastasi wrote a book about the role of genes and environment and how it affects people. During this time, this issue caused many arguments. Anne believed that labeling psychological traits, like intelligence, was unreliable because of the current methods used to define and measure was wrong. This caused Anne to change the way people define psychological traits and how it was measured. Her main theory on the matter is that people should understand how genetic works first before defining psychological traits because they can be wrong.

Anne pointed out that there were two problems when talking about genetics. The first problem was how people thought that genes were only from your parents. She said genes are not just from the parents but from relatives and extended families. The second problem was people believed that certain gene affects the body and will make certain traits appear. She says that it may be true but not all the times. She talks about how the lack of traits can cause and effect developmental issues but genes are not always involved.

She also contributed to other factors in psychology like give children with disabilities better care, study different behavior, and the development of babies.

In 1957 Anne wrote a book called "Psychological Review" and said "heredity and environment are inseparable because there would be no one in an environment without heredity and there would be no place to see the effects of heredity without environment". Anne refined her theory on Heredity and Environment and wrote a paper to the American psychological association to talk about how genes and environment effect psychological testing and what future actions should be taken. She talks about how the past research on heredity and environment has been lacking because of faulty research.

Anne believed that the people doing the research are doing it the wrong way. During this time Anne believed that the way to view the research is “How” genes and environment effect behavior, instead of “Why” genes and environment effect behavior. Once Anne started her research, she believed that there is an indirect relationship between genes and behavior.

Anne believed that environmental factors affect the genetic and behavior of a human. Genetics is more of an indirect factor were it affects behavior indirectly. Behavior is more of a direct factor where it affects the environment directly.

The understanding of “How” hereditary and environment affected each other was looked at by seven different ways and that these should be studied and looked into.


In 1991, Annie was interested in Psychometrics which is the study of testing. She had published a journal article within the journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences called “The Gap Between Experimental and Psychometric Orientations”. She used this article to tell other psychologists and researchers that psychology testing is becoming more popular but because of its other psychology parts are not being advanced researchers need to concentrate on other parts as well.

Anne was worried that if other parts were not improved psychology testing will come to a stop in advancement and that the research will be lost. She talks about how psychometric tests have random things to consider, but to be able to do reliable experiments the researchers have to be specialized in certain areas and not the general issues.

Anne is considered to be a test expert. Her second book published, "Psychological Testing", is considered to be the guide for her field. She has published more than 150 books within her lifetime that remain a staple for the psychological community. Anne won many awards for her contributions to research. Anne was the president for the Eastern Psychological Association. Eventually she became the third woman to be President of the American Psychological Association (APA) and was on the board of directors for the APA and Psychonomic Society. Anne was honored with honorary doctrines from multiples colleges and universities, such as La Salle University, University of Windsor, Villanova University, Cedar Crest College, and Fordham. She was a member of the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi honor societies.



Anne believed that intelligence tests served three purposes. The first purpose is to assess the availability of knowledge. The second purpose is to provide an indirect way of how a person has developed learning approaches, problem solving methods, and work habits. Lastly, the third purpose is to gain a prerequisite of intellectual skills.

Anne said one of the most important parts of intelligence tests is the counselor or the person giving the test. The person giving the test plays a big role in the proper and effective application of psychological testing. Since knowledge of both testing technology and psychological behavior are growing, the counselor has to be up to date with the new advances in testing. Two of the most important advances is being able to understand mathematical and technical knowledge about tests and understanding psychological behavior. A portion of the accuracy of the test relies on the counselor.

Anne did criticized intelligence testing in her article called "Indestructible Strawperson". She believed there is a developing range of disabilities which interacts with the results of the test. She talks about the main problem of intelligence test lies in the ability of communication and understanding that everyone is different and take test differently.

In order for these tests to be statistically evaluated the test itself must be done under strict standards. In order to accomplish this she set ethical restrictions that were eventually adopted by the APA. The misuse of these tests become valueless and could cause harm to the individual or group that is taking these tests.

Eventually, Anne Anastasi’s theories about Psychological Testing would be addressed by Robert Sternberg, Frank Yekovich, and Raymond Cattell. All of these researchers represented Anastasi’s work.

There have been many breakthroughs, improvements and setbacks made in research upon the conclusion of what contributes to a person’s intelligence test, whether it is genetics or environmental factors. The following researchers have shown evidence for their particular theories about intelligence testing.

There are some researchers who believe intelligence testing results is due to only genes. One way psychologists came to this conclusion by doing twin and adoption studies. Psychologists believe if identical twins have similar intelligence scores than fraternal twins we can assume that genes are correlated with intelligence. Bouchard and Mcgue (1981) looked at twins and how they were raised, whether it was in the same home or different homes. The study concluded that identical twins who were raised in separate homes had more similar intelligence test scores than fraternal twins raised in separate homes. Polmin, Fulker, Corely, and Defries (1997) found that adoptive children's intelligence scores are highly correlated with their biological parents suggesting that IQ is based on genetics instead of environment.

There are some researchers who believe intelligence testing results is due to environmental factors. One way researchers came to this conclusion is by conducting twin and adoption studies. In the same study conducted by Bouchard and Mcgue (1981), found that identical twins who were raised with their biological parents had better intelligence scores than those twins living with adoptive parents. Waldman, Weinberg, and Scarr (1994) studied adoptive children and found that those raised by their poor biological parents had lower intelligence scores than those raised by adoptive middle-class families.

Malnutrition during a pregnancy and the early years of a child's life limits the neurological development of a child. Ricciuti (1993) and Rose (1994) found that malnutrition which caused neurological effects has long term impact on a child's cognitive development and intelligence. Sigman and Whaley (1998) found that adverse effects of malnutrition have more damaging effects which affect attention, memory, abstract reasoning, and general school achievement.

Different types of toxic substances that are present during pregnancy or early post pregnancy environments can have damaging effects on a child's intelligence scores. A study completed by Michel (1989), Neisser (1996), Streussguth (1994), Vogel (1997), and Vorhess (1987) showed that alcohol, drugs, radiations, lead based paint dust affected the neurological development which contributed to the lower scores of children's intelligence scores.

Children who grow up in home environments that have poor financial resources and low levels of education are correlated with low intelligence scores. Bradely and Calwell (1984) did correlational studies which showed that a stimulating home environment is associated with higher intelligence scores. These researchers said that those children who had frequent interactions with their parents, had access to many learning and reading materials and were encouraged to grow new skills were better off.
The Flynn Effect is a recent trend found in how general intelligence scores of the population have increased over time. Flynn (1987,1999,2003) discovered that the recent changes in the industrialized world has increased peoples average psychological test performances.

Lesser Sunda Islands

The Lesser Sunda Islands (or Nusa Tenggara) are a group of islands in southern Southeast Asia, north of Australia. Together with the Greater Sunda Islands to the west they make up the Sunda Islands. The islands belong to Indonesia and East Timor.

The Sunda Islands are part of a volcanic arc, the Sunda Arc. This arc is formed by subduction along the Java Trench in the Java Sea.

The Lesser Sundas are made up of many islands. Most of these islands are part of Indonesia. The islands that are part of Indonesia are governed as the provinces of Bali, West Nusa Tenggara, East Nusa Tenggara and southern part of Maluku.

The eastern half of Timor, is part of East Timor.

In the Lesser Sunda Islands there are two geologically different groups of islands. The northern group is volcanic. It is made up of Bali, Lombok, Sumbawa, Flores and Wetar. Some of the volcanoes, like Mount Rinjani on Lombok, are still active. However, there are some other volcanoes, such as Kelimutu on Flores, which are extinct. The northern group of islands started forming during the Pliocene, about 15 million years ago. They formed because of the collision between the Australian and the Asian tectonic plates.

The southern group of islands include Sumba, Timor and Babar. They are not volcanic and are probably part of the Australian plate.

Since colonial times in Indonesia, people have been studying the geographical history of the islands. However, we still do not fully understand how the islands were formed. Ideas of how the islands were formed changed in many ways during the last decades of the 20th century.

At the point where two tectonic plates collide, the Lesser Sunda Islands are some of the most geologically complex and active regions in the world. There are several volcanoes located on the Lesser Sunda Islands.

The Lesser Sunda Islands are different from the large islands of Java or Sumatra because there are many small islands. These small islands are sometimes divided by deep oceanic trenches. Because flora and fauna cannot move between the islands easily, there are many localised species like the Komodo dragon. In "The Malay Archipelago", Alfred Wallace writes about the "Wallace Line" that passes between Bali and Lombok, along the deep waters of the Lombok Strait. In this imaginary line between Bali and Lombok, even when sea levels were lower, the sea stopped flora and fauna from moving between islands. The islands east of the Lombok Strait are part of Wallacea, and have wildlife of Asian and Australasian origin. In the Lesser Sundas, there are many plants and animals that come from Asia, because Weber's Line, which separates the parts of Wallacea that have both Asian and Australasian species, is east of the Lesser Sundas. These islands have the driest climate in Indonesia.

Some of the islands east of the Wallace line, from Lombok and Sumbawa east to Flores and Alor, have original vegetation of dry forest and not the rain forest that covers most parts of Indonesia. These islands have been designated by the World Wildlife Fund as the Lesser Sundas deciduous forests ecoregion. The higher slopes of the islands contain forests of tall Podocarpus conifers and Engelhardias with an undergrowth of lianas, epiphytes, and orchids such as Corybas, Corymborkis, and Malaxis (Adder's Mouth). The islands' coastal plains used to be savanna grasses like the savanna with Borassus flabellifer palm trees on the coasts of Komodo, Rincah and Flores. While most of the vegetation on these islands is dry forest there are small areas of rainforest on these islands too, especially in lowland areas and riverbanks on Komodo. There is also a special area of dry thorny forest on the southeast coast of Lombok. Thorn trees used to be more common in coastal areas of the islands but have mostly been cleared.

Many unique species live on the Lesser Sundas. They include seventeen endemic birds (of the 273 birds found on the islands). The endemic mammals are the endangered Flores Shrew "(Suncus mertensi)", the vulnerable Komodo Rat "(Komodomys rintjanus)", and Lombok Flying Fox "(Pteropus lombocensis)", Sunda Long-eared Bat "(Nyctophilus heran)" while the carnivorous Komodo dragon, which is the world's largest lizard, is found on Komodo, Rincah, Gili Motang, and the coast of northwestern Flores.

More than half of the original vegetation of the islands are cleared. This is because people cleared the forest to grow food, like rice, for settlements or because there were forest fires. Only Sumbawa now contains a large area of intact natural forest, while Komodo, Rincah and Padar are now protected as Komodo National Park.

General observations about small islands that can be applied to Nusa Tenggara include:


Pixie Geldof

Little Pixie Geldof (born 17 September 1990) is a British model and singer-songwriter. She was born in London to Paula Yates. She is the youngest daughter of Bob Geldof and the second youngest of Yates' four daughters. When she was 17 she was on the cover of "Tatler" magazine. This was the first magazine cover she was on. She has a band called Violet. She is the singer and writes the songs. They released their first single in 2012.

Peaches Geldof

Peaches Honeyblossom Geldof (13 March 1989 – 7 April 2014) was a British journalist, television presenter and model.

She was Paula Yates' and Bob Geldof's second daughter. She was born in Westminster. She was raised in Chelsea and Faversham, Kent. She wrote for the UK version of "Elle Girl" until it stopped being made in October 2005. In September 2007, she modeled on a catwalk for the first time at London Fashion Week. Geldof presented a show on ITV2 called "OMG! with Peaches Geldof" in 2011.

On 5 August 2008, Geldof married Max Drummey in Las Vegas. She had met him one month before. On 7 February 2009, Geldof and Drummey said that they were going to divorce. 

She married Thomas Cohen on 8 September 2012 at the church in Davington, Kent, where her parents married. They lived in North London before moving to Wrotham, Kent. On 21 April 2012, Geldof had her first son with Cohen, Astala Dylan Willow. On 24 April 2013, their second son, Phaedra Bloom Forever, was born.

Geldof was found dead on 7 April 2014 at her house in Wrotham, Kent. She was 25 years old. Her cause of death was an accidental heroin overdose.

Clipstone

Clipstone is a village near Mansfield, in the county of Nottinghamshire, England. It was built in the early 20th century as a model village for the workers of the nearby colliery.

Gillian Flynn

Gillian Flynn (born 1971) is an American writer. Her first novel, "Sharp Objects", was published in 2006. It is being made into a movie. In 2009 she was fired from her job as a writer for Entertainment Weekly. "Dark Places", Flynn's second novel, was published May 2009. It is a mystery novel. In June 2012, "Gone Girl" was published. It is about a serial killer in Missouri. In 2013, it was nominated for the 2014 Impac Dublin International Literary Award. 
She was born in Kansas City, Missouri. She lives in Ukrainian Village, Chicago with her husband and two children.

Highgate School

Sir Roger Cholmeley's School at Highgate (commonly referred to as Highgate School) is a private school in Highgate in North London, England. It was started as a charity called the Free Grammar School in 1565 by Sir Roger Cholmeley. It is still a charity. It is a member of the Eton Group. Girls and boys aged 3–18 go there. People who were students at the school become a part of the Cholmeleian Society.

John Galbraith Graham

The Reverend John Galbraith Graham MBE (16 February 1921 – 26 November 2013) was a British crossword maker. He wrote his first crossword for "The Guardian" in July 1958. From 1970 until he died, he made crosswords for "The Guardian" under the name "Araucaria". Araucaria is a monkey puzzle tree. In 1984, he made a crossword magazine called "1 Across". He died of oesophagal cancer in 2013. Collections of his crosswords have been published. In 2005 he was made a MBE (Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire).

Graham went to King's College, Cambridge in 1939. In 1942 he joined the Royal Air Force. His job was flying planes. In 1946 he went back to King's College. He studied theology there. Then he went to Ely Theological College. In 1948, the Church of England made him a priest.

Roger Squires

Roger Squires (born 22 February 1932) is a British crossword maker. He lives in Shropshire with his wife Anna. He has made more crosswords than anyone else in the world. He makes the Monday crossword for "The Telegraph". On 22 February 2012, it was Squires' 80th birthday. "The Guardian" and "Financial Times" held a party for him at "The Guardian"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s offices in London. "The Telegraph" held a lunch party for him in Birmingham. John Galbraith Graham wrote him a sonnet.

Squires has two sons. He is married to Anna Squires.

Neutral Milk Hotel

Neutral Milk Hotel is an American indie rock band. They started in Ruston, Louisiana in 1989. They were formed by singer, songwriter, and guitarist Jeff Mangum. He was the only member at first. Then Robert Schneider joined the band for its first album, "On Avery Island". It was released on Merge Records. After "On Avery Island" was released, Julian Koster, Scott Spillane and Jeremy Barnes joined the band. They then released an album called "In the Aeroplane Over the Sea" in 1998. Pitchfork scored their second album 10/10 when it was released again in 2005. In 2009, Amazon.com's editors put "In the Aeroplane Over the Sea" at number two on their list of "The 100 Greatest Indie Rock Albums of All Time".
On December 11, 2011, the band released their first release since 1998. It was an EP called "Ferris Wheel on Fire".

Demos

Studio albums

EPs

Singles

In "Will Grayson, Will Grayson", a 2010 novel by John Green and David Levithan, Will Grayson 1 is a Neutral Milk Hotel fan.

"Oh Comely" magazine is a named after the song of the same name on "In the Aeroplane Over the Sea".


John Green

John Michael Green (born August 24, 1977) is an American writer. He writes young-adult fiction novels. He is also a YouTuber, who is known for making Crash Course and other videos.

His first novel, "Looking For Alaska", was published by Dutton Children's Books in 2005. 
It won the 2006 Michael L. Printz Award. 

Green's second novel, "An Abundance of Katherines", was published in 2006. 

On October 2 2008, "Let It Snow" was published. It was a book that Green wrote with Maureen Johnson and Lauren Myracle. 

On October 16 2008 "Paper Towns" was published. In 2009 it was given the Edgar Award for best Young Adult novel.

Green wrote a book with another young adult novel writer called David Levithan, "Will Grayson, Will Grayson". It was published in 2010. It is about two boys who are both called Will Grayson. Half of the book is written from the perspective of Will Grayson 1. The other half is written by Will Grayson 2. Green wrote half of the book and Levithan wrote the other half.

"The Fault in Our Stars" was released in 2012. It is about a girl with cancer. It got very good reviews. "Time" magazine called it "damn near genius". "Booklist" called it his best novel yet. It won Teen Book of the Year at the 2013 Children's Choice Book Awards. A movie of it was released in June 2014.

Green's fans are called nerdfighters. He has a younger brother called Hank Green. The brothers have made video blogs (vlogs) on YouTube since 2007.

He lives with his wife in Indianapolis, Indiana. They have two children, Henry and Alice.


Auditorio de Tenerife

The Auditorio de Tenerife "Adán Martín", better known simply as Auditorio de Tenerife, is a performing arts centre in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain. It includes several performance venues. It was designed by architect Santiago Calatrava.

Building of the centre began in 1997. It was completed in 2003. The auditorium was opened on 26 September of that year. It was opened in the presence of Felipe de Borbón, Prince of Asturias. It was later visited by former U.S. President Bill Clinton. The design of the auditorium has become an architectural symbol of the city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife and the Canary Islands.


John C. Pemberton

John Clifford Pemberton (August 10, 1814 – July 13, 1881), was a career officer in the United States Army. He fought in the Seminole Wars and the Mexican–American War. He was commended (rewarded) for his performance in the Mexican–American War.

He also fought in the American Civil War. He commanded the Confederate army in the Siege of Vicksburg. He surrendered on July 4th, 1863.

Grypania

Grypania is an early, tube-shaped fossil from the Proterozoic eon. It is regarded by some as the first known eukaryote. 

"Grypanias status as a eukaryote is not absolutely proven. It might have been a giant bacterium or bacterial colony. Its size (over one centimeter) and consistent form, suggest it is a eukaryotic alga. The oldest known "Grypania" fossils come from an iron mine near Negaunee, Michigan. The fossils were originally dated as 2100 million years ago, but later research showed the date as about 1874 million years ago. "Grypania" lasted into the Mesoproterozoic era.

Celtis

Celtis is a genus of about 60–70 species of deciduous trees. They are commonly called hackberries. They grow in temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, in southern Europe, southern and eastern Asia, south to central Africa, southern and central North America, and northern and central South America. 

Combat stress reaction

Combat stress reaction is a medical problem that happens to some soldiers because of the trauma of war. In the past, it was called battle shock, war neurosis, or battle fatigue. It causes both mental and physical problems. It is similar to acute stress disorder, and can often become post-traumatic stress disorder.

Combat stress reaction does not affect everyone equally. Sometimes it causes soldiers to be very unhappy. Sometimes it causes soldiers severe disability.

The acute (early) stage of combat stress reaction is the best time to keep things from getting worse. Since World War I, soldiers in early stages of combat stress reaction have usually been treated on the front lines - close to where combat is happening.

Combat stress reaction can have many different symptoms. These symptoms can affect the soldier's body (physical symptoms), feelings (emotional symptoms), and behaviors (behavioral symptoms). Depending on how bad these symptoms are, combat stress reactions are labeled from mild (not too bad) to severe (very bad).

Mild physical symptoms may include:
These symptoms may not cause safety problems, or keep the soldier from working. However, if the soldier does not get help, the symptoms can become severe.

Severe symptoms may include:

Emotional symptoms may include:

Behavioral symptoms may include:

Sigmund Freud studied the effects of "war neurosis." He believed that without too much stress, people can balance impulses (what they want to do) and prohibitions (what they know they should not do). However, he thought that traumatic stress can cause powerful impulses that a person can no longer control. In combat situations, he thought this could cause soldiers to run away, or to blindly attack. He believed that soldiers would try to stop these impulses, which would lead to emotional symptoms and even loss of physical abilities.

During World War I, combat stress reaction was called "shell shock." By early 1916 (just halfway through the war), the number of British soldiers with "shell shock" was huge. Few of these soldiers returned to battle. About 30-40% of shell-shocked soldiers sent to hospitals in France returned to battle. Only about 4-5% of soldiers sent to hospitals in the United Kingdom returned.

Because of this, new units were created. They were called "Not Yet Diagnosed, Nervous Centers." These centers did not use terms like "war neurosis" or "shell shock." They used a new treatment model called "PIE" to treat soldiers with combat stress reaction. "PIE" stood for "Proximity, Immediacy, and Expectancy":
The PIE treatment model was developed by Thomas W. Salmon. After "PIE" treatment was started, about 80% of soldiers treated at the "Not Yet Diagnosed, Nervous Centers" returned to combat. (However, some of these soldiers were not able to do a good job when they returned to combat.)

British forces did not use the PIE principles during World War II. Instead, they sent soldiers with combat stress reaction to psychiatric hospitals.

The United States military did not expect their soldiers to have combat stress reactions when they entered the war. They tested soldiers when they were enlisting (being signed up for military duty). They believed that this testing would show which people were 'psychologically weak,' and that these people would not be allowed to go to war. However, because combat stress reaction is not caused by weakness, this did not work, and many American soldiers had combat stress reactions. To treat these soldiers, Captain Frederick Hanson began to use the PIE principles again. He said that 70% of the 494 patients he treated returned to duty after 48 hours of PIE treatment. General Omar Bradley decided to call combat stress reaction "exhaustion" and also decided to give "exhausted" soldiers seven days of rest.

The main goal of PIE was to return "exhausted" soldiers to combat, not to treat the trauma causing the disorder. Because of this, many of the soldiers who returned to duty - possibly as many as 70% - returned in non-combat positions.

During the Korean War, the United States started using the PIE principles within the first 8 weeks of the war. Reports show that 65-75% of soldiers with combat stress reactions returned to duty. However, only 44% were able to do their jobs at an average level or better.

At the start of the Vietnam War, the United States military had effective psychiatric services in place within 8 weeks of the start of the war. Treatments were based on the PIE principles. Special mobile psychiatric units - soldiers who could give PIE treatment in different places - were created. During the war, not many cases of combat stress reaction were reported. Because of this, many people thought that combat stress reactions would no longer play a large part in warfare. However, after soldiers returned home, many had problems with combat stress reaction. Alienation lead to substance abuse, which hid combat stress reactions that had never been treated. If the rates of post-traumatic stress disorder in Vietnam veterans are correct, the PIE principles did not prevent an epidemic of psychiatric disorders.

The United States military went into this war expecting high numbers of psychological causalities. The treatment included traditional psychiatry, as well as attention to family issues. Because this war moved so fast, diagnosing soldiers with combat stress reaction was difficult. Some commanders used combat stress reaction as an excuse to keep soldiers from returning or kick them out of the military. This eventually added to the stigma attached to mental health problems in the military.

Today, the United States Army uses the acronym BICEPS, which stands for brevity, immediacy, contact, expectancy, proximity, and simplicity:

Today's treatment also includes the "5 R's":
Today, soldiers are treated for their response to combat stress, not like they have emotional problems.

Hatfield Chase

Hatfield Chase is a low-lying area in South Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, England. It was often flooded. Hatfield chase was a royal hunting ground until Charles I tried to have it drained. He hired a Dutch engineer to drain the water in 1626. The engineer's name was Cornelius Vermuyden. He also changed the courses of the rivers Don, Idle and Torne. This included making drainage channels. But the project was not completely successful. More work was done in the 1760s to see to the problem of winter flooding. Modern pumps now work to drain the area. The history of Hatfield chase goes back to the end of Roman Britain.

On the west Hatfield Chase is bordered by the M18 motorway. The River Ouse is its northern border. The River Idle is to the south, and the Isle of Axholme borders the area to the east. It covers an area of around , including two large peat bogs known as Thorne and Hatfield Moors. Hatfield chase is part of the once vast Humberhead Levels, a wetland which originally covered some .

Originally the region was called "Haethfieldlande" or Hatfield. It was another minor Anglo-Saxon kingdom listed in the Tribal Hidage. Very little is known about Hatfield and nothing of its kings. Unlike other petty kingdoms in this area of Britain, the name here is of Anglo-Saxon origin and not British. According to the Tribal Hidage, 'Hatfield-land' was merged with Lindsey into a single kingdom. Afterwards it became known simply as Hatfield Chase, an area on the west part of Lindsey, later part of Yorkshire and Lincolnshire. Hatfield was the site of a synod held by Theodore, the Archbishop of Canterbury . It was a royal residence of several kings of Northumbria. Edwin of Northumbria was killed here at the Battle of Hatfield Chase on 12 October 633. Later, Hatfield chase became a part of the East Riding of Yorkshire.

Before the drainage and lowering of the water levels Hatfield chase was home to large numbers of aquatic birds. The waters were full of fresh-water fish.

Sport psychology

Sport psychology means applying parts of psychology to sports and athletes. One of the main ways that sports psychologists use is to help athletes meet their goals. The main group of people that sports psychologists try to help are professional athletes. They can help non-professional athletes as well. Sports psychologists mainly focus on problems the athlete has on the field but they can also help athletes with problems that they have off the field. Sports psychology did not become a recognized area of study until recently, but it has been used in the past.

Sports psychology began at the end of the nineteenth century in Europe. Sports and the body were now a more important part of people’s lives. During the 1880s, more sports were a part of the lifestyle of the people. But, the word psychology was not used in connection with the word sport before the late 1890s. In 1899 and 1900, the phrase, psychology of sport, appeared in the titles of two journal articles. The first one was by Balduin Groller. It was published in two parts in 1899, in the journal Die Wage under the title “Zur Psychologie des Sportes” (translated About the Psychology of Sport). This article said that there were parts of psychology that had not been researched at that time, that could be connected to sports and physical activities. Then in May 1900, an essay by the founder of the modern Olympic movement, Pierre de Coubertin, was published. It was titled “Le Psychologie du Sport” (translated The Psychology of Sport).

In 1875, Pyotr Francevich Lesgaft started a system of physical education. Lesgaft was a Russian scientist who studied the human body. His aim was to promote harmony between the body and soul or mind. The method Lesgaft suggested was to learn conscious control of the body; being able to think about controlling the body and then actually doing it. Then in 1884-1885, Karoly Budinsky wrote an article called “About Gymnastic Activity and the Development of Will”. The article was about how self-control and willpower could make the nervous system stronger through physical exercise.

Two scientists were at the beginning of European sport psychology: Angelo Mosso and Philippe Tissie. Angelo Mosso was an Italian who studied the human body. He was also interested in using science to study physical education, exercise, and sport. In his experiments, Mosso found that mental work causes weakness of the muscles. He also found that physical work causes weakness in mental performance. In 1894, Mosso conducted an experiment with his brother, Ugolino Mosso. He had ten Italian Mountain soldiers climb to the top of the mountain and live in a hut for ten days. He also had them perform physical exercises. There are two parts of his results that are related to sports psychology. The first one is called the pioneer effect. The pioneer effect is when in mountain climbing, the person who is leading the group will be more tired than all the others. The second is called the rivaling effect. The rivaling effect is when the soldiers, especially in periods of boredom, would begin to compete with each other in their weight lifting tests. Philippe Tissie viewed sports as a way to treat mental disorders. He published several articles between 1894 and 1909. These articles talked about how sports could help people with mental disorders. He thought that a combination of sports, gymnastics, and psychology could help people with mental disorders. He also thought that playing in too many sports could cause people to have mental disorders and behavioral problems.

In 1896, a French doctor named Charles du Pasquier published an article about how sports could help people with depression. In 1900, Eduard Bertz said that sports could help people maintain a healthy body and soul or mind. Later in 1913, Toby Cohn believed sports was a way for people to develop self-confidence, emotional health, and goal orientation. In 1914, Bernhard Berliner conducted the first study on what effect sports and exercise had on the mind and psychology. In his study, he looked at children who exercised and played sports while at a camp. His study found that children who played sports and exercised were able to concentrate better.

The first sports psychology laboratory was opened in 1920 in Berlin, Germany by Carl Diem. That same year, a psychological lab was opened by Robert Werner Schulte at the Deutsche Hochschue fur Leibesubungen near Berlin. This was a college for physical education. The lab was used to study the natural ability that people had for doing good in sports. Schulte also included sports psychology in his talks to students who took physical education. Then in 1921, he published his first book. This book was named Body and Mind in Sport. He then continued to go on to write many books about the topic of sport psychology. One of these books was called Aptitude and Performance Testing in Sport. The next development, in 1926, was the first psychoanalysis of what motivated people to want to play sports. This was done by Helene Deutsch. She found that playing in sports could help people with depression, anxiety and overcoming fears.

There were also major developments to the field of sports psychology that took place in Russia. In 1925, Russian sports psychologist Petr Antonovic Rudik did research on the development of skills and on reaction times. A reaction time is how quickly someone responds to something. In 1926, Alexander Netchayev did research on how perception, memory, imagination, and attention are influenced by sports and physical activities.

Sports psychology in North America began in the 1890s. E. W. Scripture began to study the reaction times of runners in his Yale lab. He also watched how athletes could be helped by experimental psychology. Experimental psychology uses experiments and science to study the brain and the mind. He also wrote papers about how sports affected who a person was. In his papers he argued that prisoners who participated in sports while in jail got a better attitude.

George Wells Fitz was also active in sports psychology at this time. Fitz created the first known physical education lab in North America. In 1895, Fitz ran an experiment. This experiment focused on studying the reaction times of people. He found one thing in his results: people who had quicker and more accurate reaction times would be better at sports. Fitz was the first to run experiments on reaction times in North America.

The next major event in sports psychology was an idea known as transfer of training. Transfer of training happens when you exercise one arm or one side of the body to make it stronger and the other side also becomes stronger without having any exercise. This area was first studied by Walter Wells Davis in the late 1800s. Davis ran an experiment that involved having people lift weights with one arm and not the other. His results proved the theory of transfer of training. William G. Anderson also studied this concept. In his experiments he found that people who squeezed an object on one side of the body also got stronger on the opposite side of the body.

The next developments came from Norman Tripplett. Norman Tripplett worked at the University of Indiana as a psychologist. He conducted an experiment that focused on competition. This experiment started to connect sports and psychology. His experiment also began to combine them into one field. In 1897, Tripplett started his study. He focused on how the performance of one person is influenced by other people being around. In 1898, he wrote about his results in his article, “The Dynamogenic Factors Involved in Pace-making and Competition”. His beliefs and findings were that cyclists were more likely to cycle faster when in the presence of a pacemaker or a competitor. People were more likely to cycle faster because the presence of another person caused them to put in more effort and use energy that they were not before. In 1898, Tripplett tried to confirm his predictions and beliefs he came up with during the cycling study by running an experiment in laboratory. This experiment consisted of people winding fishing line as fast as they could in order to move a flag around a course. The results of this experiment confirmed the results and predictions that were found in the cycling study.

In 1903, G.T.W Patrick studied the psychology of American football and why people loved the game so much. Next in 1912, Howard wanted to discover why people became so emotional while watching sports. Then in 1915, Karl S. Lashley and John B. Watson started a study that focused on the learning curve of people in sports. A learning curve is how people learn the skills they need to in order to succeed in sports. The sport that they focused their study on was archery. The results of their study lead them to argue that when people were participating in harder tasks, like archery, they were more likely to work harder to complete the task.

Sportswriter Hugh S. Fullerton is involved in the next development in the history of sports psychology. Fullerton brought New York Yankees player Babe Ruth to a psychology laboratory at Columbia University. Fullerton brought Ruth there to participate in a study run by Albert Johanson and Joseph Holmes. He wanted Ruth to participate in the study because he wanted to find a reason for why Ruth hit so many home runs. He also wanted to prove to other baseball scouts whether or not other players like Ruth existed. The study that Ruth participated in was used to study sensory-motor performance. Sensory-motor performance is how things that we perceive with our senses influence our movements. The study involved measuring the power of Ruth’s swing, his reaction time, his attention, his memory, and his motor skills. The results of this study offered a reason for why Ruth hit so many home runs. His skill for hitting home runs could be because on the tests his motor skills and reflexes scored above average. The next development that came regarded football. At Stanford University, B.C. Graves, a psychology graduate student, Walter Miles, a professor, and Glenn “Pop” Warner, a college football coach started an experiment. Their experiment studied reaction time. They ran their ran experiment so they could find the fastest way to get the offense to move together when the center hiked the ball. This led to the use of psychology as a way to gain an advantage over your opponent in a competition.

Even though there were many developments to this field prior to this point, the most important did not come until the time of Coleman Griffith. Griffith was a professor at the University of Illinois. He is considered to be the father of sports psychology in North America. Griffith's first contribution was that he started a section in his introductory to psychology class that only athletes could take. Then in 1921, he gave the first public talk about psychology and athletics. In 1923, he started a special course focusing on psychology and sports. It was called Psychology and Athletics. The textbook that was used for this class was Griffith’s third book, called Psychology of Coaching. Later in 1924, Griffith began meeting with Knute Rockne, who was a football coach at Notre Dame. He met with Rockne to explore how coaching was affected by psychology.

The next major contribution that Griffith made was in 1925, when he opened the first sports psychology lab in North America. This lab was only able to stay open for six years. After the closure of the laboratory, Griffith was contacted in 1937 by Philip Wrigley. Wrigley was the owner of the Major League Baseball team the Chicago Cubs. He contacted Griffith to offer him a job. Griffith accepted the job. He called the project Experimental Laboratories of the Chicago National League Ball Club. While with the Cubs, Griffith studied how psychological factors influenced performance. Based on the results of his research Griffith made recommendations to Wrigley. These recommendations included psychological clinics for the players, holding fielding practice, and having achievement tests to measure the athletes’ basic skills. However, Wrigley did not follow these recommendations but was still impressed by Griffith’s work. Wrigley offered Griffith a full-time position as a sports psychologist in 1939. Griffith refused the job to stay with his family. After this Griffith did not conduct anymore major research in the area of sports psychology. Griffith was an important part of sport psychology's history. He was an important part because not only was he the first sports psychologist but he also opened the first laboratory in America that studied the relationship between sports and psychology.

In the 1920s and 1930s, psychology was beginning to be taught at coaching schools. Some coaches used what they were learning about sports psychology while coaching their teams. Paul Brown was head coach of the Cincinnati Bengals. He began using psychological testing with his players. His tests eventually became known as the beginning of the National Football League’s tests that are still used today. During the 1940s, psychology was starting to be used as a way for athletes to improve their performance. Psychology professor Dorothy Hazeltine Yates helped a boxer try to improve his skills through psychology; the boxer then went on to have the best fights of his career. Also during the 1940s, hypnosis was starting to be used to help athletes to relax. During the 1950s, David F. Tracy began using psychological methods to help players on the St. Louis Browns, a major league baseball team, now known as the Baltimore Orioles.

In the late 1950s and early 1960s, sports were becoming more important to people. So, psychology of sports was more accepted because it helped athletes. Four things were important to expand the field of sports psychology. These were textbooks, graduate programs, associations, and journals. One of the main areas that was being studied during this time period was the affect stress had on athletes and their performance. In 1960, Warren R. Johnson continued the research he started in 1949. This research was about the effect stress had on an athlete. He continued this research by creating the first textbook on the topic. In 1961, Maxwell Howell started the first graduate school program in physical education. He did this at the University of Alberta in Canada. The creation of associations and journals was the next development of this time period. In 1967, the North American Society for the Psychology of Sport and Physical Activity or (NASPSPA)was created. It was created by a group of sport psychologists led by Warren Johnson. One of the first things that this organization did was to start publishing the "Sport Psychology Bulletin". The "Sport Psychology Bulletin" included research reports and the writings of the members of the NASPSPA. Then in 1970, the "International Journal of Sport Psychology" was started. During the 1970s and 1980s, there were many associations and journals that were started. These were the Association for the Advancement of Applied Sport Psychology, the American Psychological Association's Division 47 of Exercise and Sport Psychology, the Sport Psychology Academy of the American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation, and Dance, the "Journal of Sports Psychology", the "Journal of Sport Science", the "Sport Psychologist", and the "Journal of Applied Sport Psychology". The next major developments involved the United States Olympic Committee. In 1978, they started a Sports Medicine Council that included sports psychologists. In 1985, they created the first registry or list of sports psychologists.

Now there are two types of sports psychology, academic and applied. Academic sports psychology does the research. Applied sports psychology uses that research to teach coaches and trainers. There are three main areas of need in applied sports psychology. They are what kinds of certification, education, or licenses are necessary to practice applied sports psychology, the need to provide proper training for people who are studying applied sports psychology, and developing new ways to help athletes.

Today the number of sports psychologists that are being used by athletes is increasing. In fact, so many athletes are being helped by sports psychologists, that some organizations are starting to limit how many coaches can be on the field during a game. Many athletes are now using sports psychology as part of their everyday lives and training for games.

Alexa PenaVega

Alexa Ellesse PenaVega (born August 27, 1988) is an American singer, musician and actress. She starred in lots of movies and TV series, among which are "Ghost Whisperer", "Evening Shade", "Twister", "The Glimmer Man", "Nine Months" and the "Spy Kids" movie series. Vega was born in Miami, Florida. She voices Carlota in The Casagrandes.

NXT Tag Team Championship

The NXT Tag Team Championship is a professional wrestling championship in the WWE. The title is a NXT-only championship.

The title was presented by special guest Shawn Michaels on the January 23, 2013 edition of "NXT". He announced that there would be a tournament held to crown the first champions. A team called British Ambition (whose members were Adrian Neville and Oliver Grey) beat a team called The Wyatt Family (Luke Harper and Erick Rowan) to become the first champions on January 31, 2013 (but it could not be watched on TV until February 13). In their first match for the title, Neville and Bo Dallas fought the Wyatt Family because Grey was hurt badly and could not fight. Neville and Dallas lost. Neville and Corey Graves beat the Wyatt Family for the titles on June 20 (shown on TV on July 17) and Neville became the first wrestler to win the title twice. At in June 2016, The Revival (Dash Wilder and Scott Dawson) became the first team to win the title twice by beating American Alpha (Chad Gable and Jason Jordan). 

Right now, the champions are Bron Breakker and Baron Corbin, who are in their first reign. They won the title by defeating previous champions The Family (Tony D'Angelo and Channing "Stacks" Lorenzo) on the February 13, 2024, episode of "NXT" in Orlando, Florida.

As of 31, 2024.

!Rank
!Team
!No. of<br>reigns
!Combined<br>days
!Combined daysrec. by WWE
!1
!2
!3
!4
!5
!6
!7
!8

Al Plastino

Alfred John Plastino (December 15, 1921 – November 25, 2013) was an American comic book artist. He was best known as one of the most important Superman artists of the 1950s, along with his DC Comics colleague Wayne Boring. Plastino also worked as a comics writer, editor, letterer and colorist. 

He co-created the DC characters Supergirl and Braniac, as well as the teenage team the Legion of Super-Heroes.

Plastino lived for many years in Shirley, New York, on Long Island. At the time of his death on November 25, 2013, after suffering from prostate cancer, aged 91. 


William Atherton

William Atherton (born William Atherton Knight; July 30, 1947) is an American movie, stage and television actor. He is known for his roles as Richard "Dick" Thornburg in "Die Hard" and in "Die Hard 2" and as Walter Peck in "Ghostbusters". 

Atherton was born on July 30, 1947 in Orange, Connecticut. He studied acting at the Drama School at Carnegie Tech and graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University in 1969.


Troubadour

A troubadour was someone who composed and performed Old Occitan lyric poetry during the High Middle Ages. A female troubadour is usually called a trobairitz.

Troubadour songs were mainly about chivalry and courtly love. Many were humorous or vulgar satires. A Troubadour was considered a profession with great honor.

Pope Dionysius

Pope Dionysius (??? − 26 December 268) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 22 July 259 until he died on 26 December 268. He was born in Greece.

Food group

A food group is a collection of foods that have nutritional properties or biological classifications that are almost the same. People have written nutrition guides to put different foods into food groups and recommend daily servings of each group for a healthy diet.


The number of "common" food groups can change depending on who is defining them. Canada's Food Guide, which has been printed every year since 1942 and is the second most requested government document (after the income tax form) in Canada, recognizes only four official food groups, with all other foods called "another." Some of these "others" include:

Anne Morrow Lindbergh

Anne Morrow Lindbergh (née Anne Spencer Morrow; June 22, 1906February 7, 2001) was an American writer and aviator. She was married to Charles Lindbergh. She wrote poetry and non-fiction. She wrote about many different things. Lindbergh's "Gift from the Sea" was an important feminist book.

Anne Spencer Morrow was born on June 22, 1906 in Englewood, New Jersey. She was the second of four children. Her father was Dwight W. Morrow, a partner in J.P. Morgan & Co.. He became United States Ambassador to Mexico and United States Senator from New Jersey. Her mother, Elizabeth Reeve Cutter Morrow, was a poet, teacher, and acting president of Smith College.

Lindbergh attended Smith College. She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1928. She received the Elizabeth Montagu Prize for her essay on women of the 18th century and Madame d'Houdetot. She received the Mary Augusta Jordan Literary Prize for her piece of fiction called "Lida Was Beautiful".

Anne and Charles Lindbergh met on December 21, 1927, in Mexico City. Her father was Lindbergh's financial adviser at J. P. Morgan and Co.. He invited Lindbergh to Mexico in order to help create good relations between that country and the United States. Anne later wrote in her diary:
Anne Morrow and Charles Lindbergh married on May 27, 1929. The ceremony was a private one at her parents' home in Englewood, New Jersey.

That year, Anne flew a plane by herself for the first time. In 1930, she became the first American woman to earn a first-class glider pilot license. In the 1930s, Anne and Charles explored and charted air routes between continents. The Lindberghs were the first to fly from Africa to South America. They explored polar air routes from North America to Asia and Europe.

The Lindbergh's first child, Charles Augustus Lindbergh, Jr., was born on June 22, 1930. On March 1, 1932, he was kidnapped from their home in East Amwell, New Jersey. The following May 12, a baby's body was found from the Lindberghs' home. Bruno Richard Hauptmann was tried, convicted, and executed for the murder of the Lindberghs' son.

Because of the kidnapping of their son and other things, a lot of attention was paid to the Lindberghs. That made them decide to move. First they went to England. Later they went France.

While in Europe, the Lindberghs started to believe that the United States should not be involved with other countries. Many people disliked them because of that. Lindbergh thought the United States should not be involved in war in Europe. In 1940, Anne wrote a booklet called "The Wave of the Future" in support of her husband. The booklet became one of the most hated writings of the time. Anne also wrote about Hitler, saying that he was "a very great man, like an inspired religious leader—and as such rather fanatical—but not scheming, not selfish, not greedy for power."

In 1938, the Lindberghs moved back to the United States. They later had five more children: sons Jon, Land and Scott, and daughters Anne and Reeve.

After the war, Anne and Charles wrote books that made people think better of them again. Anne's 1955 book "Gift from the Sea" earned Anne's place as "one of the leading advocates of the nascent environmental movement". It became a national best seller.

During their 45-year marriage, Charles and Anne lived in New Jersey, New York, England, France, Maine, Michigan, Connecticut, Switzerland, and Hawaii. In the early 1950s, Anne had a three-year affair with her doctor. Charles died on Maui in 1974.

In the early 1990s, Anne had a series of strokes which left her confused and disabled. After that, she continued to live in her home in Connecticut with round-the-clock caregivers. In 1999, she came down with pneumonia, after which she went to live in a small home built on her daughter Reeve's Vermont farm. In 2001, at the age of 94, Anne died there from another stroke. Reeve Lindbergh's book, "No More Words", tells the story of her mother's last years.

In 1933, Lindbergh received the U.S. Flag Association Cross of Honor for surveying transatlantic air routes. The following year, she received the Hubbard Medal from the National Geographic Society for of exploratory flying with her husband. In 1993, Women in Aerospace gave her an Aerospace Explorer Award for her achievements and contributions in aerospace.
She was added to the National Aviation Hall of Fame (1979), the National Women's Hall of Fame (1996), the Aviation Hall of Fame of New Jersey, and the International Women in Aviation Pioneer Hall of Fame (1999).

Lindbergh's first book, "North to the Orient" (1935) won a National Book Award for the Most Distinguished General Nonfiction of 1935. Her second book, "Listen! The Wind" (1938), won the same award. She received the Christopher Award for "War Within and Without", the last book of her published diaries.

Lindbergh received honorary degrees from her alma mater Smith College. She also received honorary degrees from Amherst College, the University of Rochester, Middlebury College, and Gustavus Adolphus College.


Taipei Grand Mosque

The Taipei Grand Mosque () is a mosque in Taipei, Taiwan. It is the first and largest mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1947.

After the handover of Taiwan from Japan to the Republic of China (ROC) in 1945, the Chinese Muslim Association (CMA) in ROC capital, Nanking, established the preparatory committee to create the Taiwan branch of the CMA in 1947. Since there was no place for Chinese Muslim to pray in Taiwan at that time, they raised money to build the very first mosque in Taiwan which was located at Lishui Street in Taipei City. After they have finished constructing the mosque, Muslims started to pray there in August 1948.

After the Chinese Civil War in 1949, there were many Chinese Muslims fled Mainland China to Taiwan with the Nationalist (Kuomintang) government army. The first mosque was not enough to accommodate all of them, therefore they had to find a new place to rebuild the mosque. The new mosque was proposed by CMA Director-General Bai Chongxi and ROC Minister of Foreign Affairs George Yeh. The mosque was finally built at the Xinsheng South Street in Taipei. The mosque was inaugurated on 13 April 1960 by ROC Vice President Chen Cheng.

The mosque was designed by Taiwanese famous architect Yang Cho-cheng, the same architect who had designed the Taipei Grand Hotel, Chang Kai-shek Memorial Hall, National Theater and Concert Hall and many other buildings in Taiwan. The mosque was registered as a historic landmark by the Taipei City Government on 29 June 1999.

The mosque houses the Chinese Muslim Association, the largest Islamic organization in Taiwan. It houses also the headquarter for the Chinese Islamic Cultural and Educational Foundation.

Kaohsiung Mosque

The Kaohsiung Mosque () is a mosque in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. It is the second mosque to be built in Taiwan.

The original building of the mosque was built in 1949 by the Nationalist Muslims whom mostly came with the Nationalist Army who fled from Mainland China after their defeat in the Chinese Civil War by the Communist Army. This wave of migration is considered to be the second wave of Muslim migration to Taiwan in the 1950s. The construction of the mosque was initially suggested by the Muslim public officers working for the Nationalist government.

The first mosque building was built at Wufu 4th Road in Kaohsiung City. After two years, they moved the mosque to a new bigger place at Linsen 1st Road in 1951 to accommodate larger crowds. In 1990, they moved the mosque again to its current location at the Jianjun Road. The mosque was opened on April 1992.

Taipei Cultural Mosque

The Taipei Cultural Mosque () is a mosque in Taipei, Taiwan. It is the third mosque in Taiwan.

The mosque was originally built in 1950 at Roosevelt Road in Taipei. Because of the expansion of roads a few year later, the mosque was moved to Xinhai Road. It was reopened in 1983. The mosque was inaugurated by the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia to the ROC, Assad Abdul Aziz Al-Zuhair. The mosque was renovated on April 2010 with help from the Indonesian Economic and Trade Office to Taipei. 

The mosque is a building with five floors. It has Islamic traditional culture and modern architecture.

The mosque serves as the headquarters of the Chinese Muslim Youth League. It also houses the office of the Taiwan Halal Integrity Development Association, a group that issues Halal certification to food products produced in Taiwan for Muslims to eat. The mosque also has dormitories for Muslim travelers and foreign missionaries to stay.

It is not like Taipei Grand Mosque, which is heavily supported by the ROC government and Kuomintang. Taipei Cultural Mosque depends heavily on private donations. This makes it a purely civilian mosque concentrating on religious affairs.

Taichung Mosque

The Taichung Mosque () is a mosque in Taichung, Taiwan. It is the fourth mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1951.

After fleeing Mainland China at the end of Chinese Civil War in 1949, some of the Nationalist Muslim army resided in Changhua. Most of them did their prayers in some residential houses. To accommodate the growing number of Muslims in Taiwan, a mosque was planned to be built in 1951. The first location of the mosque was at Zhongxiao Road in Taichung City. When the number of Muslims grew, the new Taichung Mosque was constructed and reopened in 1990 at Dadun South Road.

Taichung Mosque is a building with three floors. It has shop, restaurant, dormitories and classroom.

The library at the mosque is used as a place to spread information about Islam to the public.

Longgang Mosque

The Longgang Mosque or Lungkang Mosque () is a mosque in Taoyuan County, Taiwan. It is the fifth mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1967.

Victor Hasselblad

Fritz Victor Hasselblad (8 March 1906 in Gothenburg – 5 August 1978 in Gothenburg) was a Swedish camera designer and photographer. He was the founder and CEO of Victor Hasselblad AB, and the creator of the Hasselblad camera 1948. The U.S. space agency NASA chose the Hasselblad camera to be its official "place camera" and it was later used by astronauts on the moon.

Feeling Good

"Feeling Good" (or "Feelin' Good") is a jazz ballad. It was written by English composers Anthony Newley and Leslie Bricusse for the musical "The Roar of the Greasepaint – The Smell of the Crowd". It was first performed on stage in 1964 by Cy Grant on the UK tour and by Gilbert Price in 1965 with the original Broadway cast.

Nina Simone recorded "Feeling Good" for her 1965 album "I Put a Spell on You". The ballad was then performed again and covered by Michael Bublé and Muse, along with others throughout the years. The song has been also sampled in other recording artists' music.

In addition to Buble and Muse, the song has been covered by Sammy Davis Jr., Traffic, John Coltrane, George Michael, Victory, Eels, Joe Bonamassa, Eden, Black Cat Bones, Bassnectar, Sophie B. Hawkins, Leslie West, Avicii, Chlöe and Lauryn Hill. It was performed by John Legend as part of the Celebrating America performance marking the inauguration of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris on January 20th 2021.

God Bless the Child

"God Bless the Child" is a popular jazz ballad. It was first written in 1939 though not released until 1942. Billie Holiday sang the first version. Lisa Simpson (voiced by Yeardley Smith), made this ballad more popular in 1990-1991.

The Simpsons Sing the Blues

The Simpsons Sing the Blues is an album of songs sung by the characters from "The Simpsons". The songs are not on the television series, except for "Moaning Lisa Blues". The album was released in early December 1990. It included many songs, including "Do the Bartman" and "Deep Deep Trouble". The most notable, however, was Lisa Simpson's version of "God Bless the Child" (originally by Billie Holiday). That song was a major hit during early 1991.

George Monbiot

George Joshua Richard Monbiot (born 27 January 1963) is an English writer and activist. He writes for "The Guardian" every week about environment issues. Seven of his books have been published. In 1995, Nelson Mandela gave him a United Nations Global 500 Award. In January 2010 he started a website called "ArrestBlair.org". The website offers money to people who are trying to have Tony Blair arrested for crimes against peace.

Monbiot was born in Kensington, London. Both his parents worked in politics. He grew up in a house in Henley-on-Thames. He went to Stowe School. He then won a scholarship to study at Brasenose College, Oxford. He did a Master's degree in zoology there.

After he got his degree, Monbiot made radio programmes about natural history for the BBC Natural History Unit. Then he left and joined the BBC's World Service. He left to write his first book, "Poisoned Arrows".

Monbiot was in the 2009 movie "The Age of Stupid".

In 2013, Monbiot's book "Feral: Searching for Enchantment on the Frontiers of Rewilding" was published.

In July 2013, he gave a TED talk about "Feral".

Monbiot lives in Wales with his wife Angharad Penrhyn Jones.


Bat For Lashes

Natasha Khan (born 25 October 1979) is a British singer-songwriter better known as Bat For Lashes. She is the daughter of Pakistani squash player Rehmat Khan. Her first album, "Fur and Gold", was released by The Echo Label on 11 September 2006 in the United Kingdom. It got good reviews. It was nominated for the 2007 Mercury Prize. In 2008 Khan performed at some of the shows in Radiohead's tour. She did a cover of The Cure's song "A Forest". It was put on "Perfect as Cats: A Tribute to the Cure". On 3 April 2009 her second album "Two Suns" was released. It went straight to No.5 in the UK Albums Chart. Like "Fur and Gold" it was nominated for the Mercury Prize but didn't win. The first single from the album, "Daniel", is her best-selling single so far. It has sold over 46,000 copies around the world. It won Best Contemporary Song at the 2010 Ivor Novello Awards. Khan sang a song with Beck called "Let's Get Lost" for the soundtrack to the 2010 movie "". Bat For Lashes' third album, "The Haunted Man", was released on 11 October 2012. Pitchfork gave it 8.4 out of 10.

In July 2013 Bat For Lashes released a single with Toy called "The Bride".

In 2013 Khan wrote and sung a song with Jon Hopkins called "Garden's Heart". It was released as a single. It is on the soundtrack to the film "How I Live Now". Khan directed the music video.


Ola Orekunrin

Ola Orekunrin (born 1986 / 1987) is a Nigerian-British doctor and entrepreneur.

Orekunrin was raised by foster parents in Lowestoft. She started studying Medicine at the University of York in England when she was fifteen.

Orekunrin became a doctor when she was twenty one. This made her one of the United Kingdom's youngest doctors. She started a charity called Flying Doctors Nigeria Lt in Lagos in 2007. It is West Africa's first air ambulance service. In 2008 she was given the MEXT Japanese Government Scholarship. In 2012 she gave a talk at TEDxSendai and TEDxVictoriaIsland. She was on the cover of "Ladybrille magazine". In 2013 the World Economic Forum put her on their list of Young Global Leaders.

Julianna Barwick

Julianna Barwick is an American singer. She was born in Louisiana. She has released three albums. 

In 2006 Barwick released "Sanguine". Her first album "The Magic Place" was released by Asthmatic Kitty Records on February 21, 2011. It got good reviews. Pitchfork gave it 8.5 out of 10. On June 14 2011, "FRKWYS Vol. 6" was released. It is an album that Barwick made with Ikue Mori. On August 20, 2013, "Nepenthe" was released by Dead Oceans Records. Amiina play string instruments in it. There is also a choir of teenage girls in it. "Pitchfork" said that it 'sounds like nobody else'. They gave it 8.5 out of 10. Barwick is currently doing a tour for the album.


Dolmabahçe Palace

Dolmabahçe Palace is a palace in the Beşiktaş district on the European side of Istanbul, Turkey. It is on the coast of the Bosphorus. It was the official residence of the Ottoman Sultans and the main administrative center of the Ottoman Empire from 1856 to 1922 marking the beginning of constitutional governance. Construction of the palace started in 1843. After the Ottoman Empire ended in 1922 and Turkey became a republic in 1923, it became a museum.


Siraj ud-Daulah

Mirza Muhammad Siraj ud-Daulah, more commonly known as "Siraj ud-Daulah" (1733 – July 2, 1757), was the last independent Nawab of Bengal. The end of his reign marked the start of British East India Company's rule over Bengal and later almost all of South Asia.
Before all these he was the one who helped Alivardi Khan resist all the 5 invasions of Maratha Confederacy, and 1 invasion of Durrani Empire, he also helped Alivardi in 3 tackle attack on Maratha Confederacy, and 1 tackle attack on Durrani Empire. His reign of just 1 year extended the control of the Nawab of Bengal from Chhattisgarh to Parts of Thailand.

•Mirza Muhammad Siraj-ud-Daulah was born in Murshidabad,Bengal on 1733 to Zain-Ud-Din-Ahmed-Khan(Father), and Amina Begum(Mother) to a Sunni Muslim family.
•His father was the Diwan of Bihar under the Nawab of Bengal Alivardi Khan.
•His mother was the youngest daughter of Nawab of Bengal Alivardi Khan(Father), and Sharf-Un-Nissa Begum(Mother).
•He was very brave since His childhood, and educationally strong, and intelligent too. He was the scholar of 9 languages, and was really good at Maths, and Science. Because Alivardi Khan wanted him to do so. He studied with his two childhood friend Mir Madan, and Mohanlal.
•His first war in his whole life was at The age of 9 years with Alivardi Khan at the age of 71 years with just 2,500 soldiers against the army of Raghoji Bhonsle, and Bhaskar Pandit with 20,000 soldiers.
•He has killed an Asian Lion without any weapons at age of just 13 years.
•During The Third Battle of Katwa, he defeated 32,000 soldiers of Sikh with just 5,000 specialised cavalry soldiers.
•During the First Battle of Siliguri He, and Alivardi Khan together with just 45,000 soldiers attacked, and defeated the 92,850 soldiers of Durrani Empire under Emperor Jahan-Bakht-Khan.
•During The Second Battle of Haldigram Commander Manikchand of Banga Jala Bahini (Bengal Navy) under Siraj with 45 vessels attacked, and defeated The East India Company Navy with 52 vessels, because of the technological advancement of the Bengal Navy.
•During The siege of Calcutta Siraj, and Mohanlal took just 50 soldiers, attacked, and defeated the 4,000 soldiers of East India Company in Fort William, Calcutta.

Siraj ud-Daulah received the title of "Mansur-ul-Mulk, Seraj-ud-Daulla, Ghaseti Begum" (Victory of the Country, Light of the State, Horror in War). He was to succeed as the Nawab of Bengal in April 1756 AD at the age of twenty-seven. Siraj Ud-Daulah's nomination to the nawabship caused jealousy and enmity of "Mehar-un-nisa Begum" or "Ghaseti Begum"(eldest sister of Siraj's Mother Amina Begum), Raja Rajballabh, Mir Jafar Ali Khan and "Shaukat Jang"(Siraj's Cousin). Ghaseti Begum possessed huge wealth, which was the source of her influence and strength. On Receiving serious opposition from her, Siraj ud-Daulah seized her wealth from Moti Jheel Palace and placed her in confinement. The "nawab" also made certain changes in high government positions giving them to his favorites.

Exeter College, Oxford

Exeter College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The full name of the college is "The Rector and Scholars of Exeter College at the University of Oxford". It was founded in 1314, making it the fourth oldest college at Oxford. The college was founded by the Bishop of Exeter, Walter de Stapledon.

Exeter first allowed women to enroll in 1979. In 1993, it became the first Oxford college to elect a female Rector, Marilyn Butler.

Famous people who attended Exeter college include authors J.R.R. Tolkien and Phillip Pullman.

Green Templeton College, Oxford

Green Templeton College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 2008, when Green College and Templeton College merged. It is the newest college at Oxford.

The former Green College was formed in 1979, and was named after one of its largest donors, Cecil H. Green, the founder of Texas Instruments. 

The former Templeton College was originally formed in 1965 as the Oxford Center for Management Studies. It was renamed Templeton College in 1983 after John Templeton donated a large endowment. In 1995, Templeton College was granted a charter as a graduate college of the University.

Green Templeton College is a graduate college only. It does not have any undergraduate students.

The college is located at the former Green College campus in North Oxford. Its most notable building is the Radcliffe Observatory at the center of the campus.

Harris Manchester College, Oxford

Harris Manchester College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. Its formal name is "Manchester Academy and Harris College". It was founded in 1786 as the Manchester Academy in Manchester. The college moved from Manchester to York in 1803. It moved back to Manchester in 1840 and began an association with the University of London. The college moved to London in 1853. In 1889, the college moved to Oxford, and a new campus, designed by Thomas Worthington was completed in 1893.

The college became a full college of the University in 1996. At that time, it changed its name to Harris Manchester College.

Harris Manchester College only admits students who are at least 21 years old.

Hank Green

Hank Green (born May 5, 1980) is an American YouTuber, author, and musician. He is the younger brother of John Green.

He lives with his wife Katherine Green, in Missoula, Montana. He was born in Alabama.

On May 19, 2023, Green announced that he had been diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Hank and John have a YouTube channel called VlogBrothers. The brothers began the channel on January 1, 2007, when Hank made the channel's first video blog. Since then, Hank and John have been active on the channel, making videos back and forth. In the beginning of their channel's history, the videos were being made as a way to talk to each other without having to text. The two brothers made their goal to do this for a year, as a way to grow close to each other again, and called the project "Brotherhood 2.0."

Once 2007 ended, the brother said that the Brotherhood 2.0 project would end, but that they would continue making video blogs on the channel. Since then, the amount of fans of the channel, or as Hank and John call them, "Nerdfighters," have grown.

In 2007, Hank and John started "Project 4 Awesome," a charity fundraiser that takes place every year through the internet. Hank and John also started VidCon, a conference and convention held every year, beginning 2010.

In 2011, YouTube gave the Greens funds to start two educational channels, "Crash Course", and "SciShow". Hank hosts "SciShow", which has videos on different science topics. On "Crash Course", Hank teaches viewers science subjects, and started with biology.

In 2012, Hank made "The Lizzie Bennet Diaries", a present-day adaptation of "Pride and Prejudice", with producer Bernie Su. The show put up its episodes on YouTube, in a vlog diary style. Hank was an executive producer and a writer on the show. In 2013, the show won a Creative Arts Emmy Award in the "Interactive Media" category.

Hank started a record label called DFTBA Records with Alan Lastufka in 2008.


Kellogg College, Oxford

Kellogg College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1990 as "Rewley House". It was renamed as Kellogg College in 1994 to honor large financial donations from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. 

Kellogg College only admits graduate students. It does not have any undergraduate students. It was the first college at the University to allow part-time students. 

Palace of Fine Arts (Mexico)

The Palace of Fine Arts () is the most important cultural center in Mexico. It is located in the historic center of Mexico City. The building has several murals by Diego Rivera, Siqueiros and others. Exhibitions and theatrical performances take place here, including performances of the Ballet Folklorico de Mexico.


Operation Restore Hope

The Operation Restore Hope was an operation of the United States and many of its allied countries in Somalia. The operation was protected by the United Nations. The United States was the leader of this operation. Somalia was in civil war and many people were dying from hunger in this country. The goal of this operation was creating suitable conditions and calming down the situation in Somalia for helping the Somali people who needed food in the southern part of this country.

After the killing of several Pakistani peacekeepers, the Security Council ordered the allied forces by the Resolution 837, that they can do anything for sending the humanitarian aid to the Somali people in accordance to Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. This operation was successful.

Apollo 8 Genesis reading

On December 24, 1968, the crew of Apollo 8 read from the Book of Genesis on a television broadcast of their mission as they orbited the moon. Bill Anders, Jim Lovell, and Frank Borman read verses 1 through 10, using the Authorized King James Version text. This was the most watched television broadcast at the time of its broadcast.



Electric power distribution

Electric power distribution is the delivery system of electricity to places that use it, such as homes and other buildings. It is done mainly by power lines, transformers, substations and meters. The electricity comes from the power station at high voltage and is delivered at medium to low voltage levels. 

In early days, electricity was distributed as direct current (DC). Alternating current (AC) was later introduced during the War of Currents. DC distribution disappeared because transformers can easily convert AC to high voltage for electric power transmission and low voltage to use at home.


Electricity meter

An electricity meter (or energy meter) is a device that measures the amount of electricity used by a house or business. Measurements are usually taken in kilowatt hours (kWh).

Electricity meters became popular when more and more houses were connected to electricity in the 1880s. Instead of charging the homes based on how many electricity loads they had, charging on how much electricity they used became more accurate and fair.

This type electricity meter uses the force generated by current when passing through magnetic field to rotate a spinning disk inside the meter. The disk is then turn the number to indicate how much electricity has been used which is recorded by the meter.

This type of electricity meter converts electricity directly with an analogue-to-digital converter inside a microprocessor to get the exact electricity usage reading.

Electricity meters can easily be tampered with. This may allow the customers to use electricity for free. Tampering with electricity meters is illegal and can carry fines or legal actions.

High-voltage direct current

A high-voltage direct current (HVDC) is a transmission system which uses direct electric current (DC) to transmit electricity. It is more efficient over long distances than the usual high-voltage alternating current (HVAC).

HVDC was first demonstrated in 1882 in Germany. The technology was further developed during the 1930s in Sweden and Nazi Germany. Early commercial uses were in the Soviet Union and Sweden in 1951.

The converter in HVDC system converts AC electricity to DC electricity or vice versa. Converting AC to DC, it acts as a rectifier. Converting DC to AC, it acts as an inverter.

Types of HVDC converters:

The transformer at the converter station ensures that the station is isolated from the AC system connected to the HVDC system. It also provides the correct voltage level which will be converted to DC voltage.

Because harmonics are always produced in electronic equipment, harmonic filters are used at the AC terminal of the converter. The DC harmonic filters can also be used at the DC line after the AC/DC conversion.

The electrode provides a ground return path for line current in monopolar configuration and unbalanced current in bipolar configuration.

In HVDC monopole configuration, one of the terminals of the rectifier is connected to earth ground. The other terminal is connected to the transmission line. The earthed terminal may be connected to the corresponding connection at the inverting station by means of a second conductor.

In HVDC bipolar configuration, a pair of conductors are used, each at a high potential with respect to ground in opposite polarity. The DC current flows via the positive pole and returns via the negative pole. The connection point between the positive and negative poles is grounded to the earth.

In this configuration, virtually no earth or neutral current is flowing. When one pole is broken, half of its transfer capability is still available.

A back-to-back HVDC station is a HVDC station in which both converters are located within the same building area where the length of the DC line is being kept as short as possible.




Ronda Rousey

Ronda Jean Rousey (born February 1, 1987) is an American professional wrestler, actress, former judoka, and mixed martial artist. She was most recently signed to WWE. She was also known for her time fighting in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) and as an Olympic judoka.

In WWE, she is a two-time SmackDown Women's Champion, one-time Raw Women's Champion, one-time Women's Tag Team Champion, and the winner of the 2022 Royal Rumble. In the UFC, she was a one-time UFC Women's Bantamweight Champion and was inducted into the UFC Hall of Fame in 2018. As a judoka, Rousey competed at the 2008 Summer Olympics, where she won the bronze medal.

She used to be the UFC Female Bantamweight Champion until November 2015 when she got defeated by American Holly Holm. It was her first ever loss. In December 2016 she tried to win the championship back but she got defeated by total knockout (TKO) just 48 seconds into the first round, this time by Brazilian Amanda Nunes. She then started a career in the WWE, which ran from 2018 to 2023.

She is expected to also act in movies beginning in summer 2014. She acted in the 2014 movie "Expendables 3" and Fast & Furious 7.

She was born in the city of Riverside, California.

She has endorsed Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign for the 2016 United States presidential election.


Alicia Vikander

Alicia Vikander (born October 3, 1988) is a Swedish actress. She will play Alice Deane in "Seventh Son". She has also been in lots of other movies, such as the 2015 "Ex Machina".

Vikander was born in Gothenburg, Sweden.

Seventh Son

Seventh Son is a 2014 fantasy-action movie directed by Sergei Bodrov. The movie is set during the medieval period. In this movie are Julianne Moore, Alicia Vikander and Jeff Bridges. This movie was released in the United States in February 2015. The studio which distributes "Seventh Son" is Universal Pictures.

Hau Pei-tsun

Hau Pei-tsun (; 8 August 1919 – 30 March 2020) was the Premier of the Republic of China from May 30, 1990 to February 10, 1993. He was also a 4-star general in that country's army.

He was born on 8 August 1919 in Yancheng, Jiangsu. He studied at the Chinese Military Academy.

In the 1996 elections, he ran for vice-president as an independent. He ran with Lin Yang-kang, who was running for president. His party later collapsed and was expelled from the elections. His party's membership was restored in 2005.

He married Kuo Wan-hua and had two sons and three daughters. One of his sons is politician Hau Lung-pin, the former chairman of the New Party, and current Mayor of Taipei.

Hau died of multiple organ failure on 30 March 2020 in Taipei at the age of 100.


Skin effect

Skin effect is the tendency of an alternating electric current to flow towards the perimeter of a conductor and leave the center part of the conductor without (or barely) any electricity flow. This effect increases as frequency increases.

Utility frequency

Utility frequency, line frequency or mains frequency is the frequency level of the AC electricity used in transmission and distribution from electricity generation sources to customers. The world's two major utility frequencies are 50 Hz (most, but not all, of the Eastern hemisphere) and 60 Hz (most, but not all, of the Western hemisphere).

Many electric railways in Europe use a frequency of 16.7 Hz (one third of 50 Hz). Early electric railways sometimes used 25 Hz (half of 50 Hz). New electric railways usually use the standard mains frequency of 50 Hz. Some lines in the northeast United States still use 25 Hz.

Rogelio Guerra

Hildegardo Francisco Guerra Martínez (8 October 1936 in Aguascalientes, Mexico – 28 February 2018 in Mexico City) or Rogelio Guerra, was a Mexican movie actor and television actor. He has also sometimes worked as a voice actor. 

He appeared in over 200 Spanish sitcoms since his career began in 1957. He has also appeared on several international movies as a Spanish-dub actor such as Perry White in "Superman Returns".

Guerra was born on 8 October 1936 in Aguascalientes, Mexico. He was married to Maribel Robles. Guerra died in Mexico City of a heart attack while suffering from complications of a stroke he had in 2015. He was 81 years old.


Power system harmonics

Power system harmonics are the harmonic contents from the utility frequency. Harmonics are one kind of distortion to a voltage or current's waveform. This distortion is produced by non-linear devices connected to the power system. Since equipment is made to work at the utility frequency, harmonics can make it work wrong. This is one kind of power quality problem. It increases heating in power equipment.

Harmonics can be eliminated or reduced by using harmonic filter.

Eric del Castillo

José Eduardo Eric del Castillo Negrete-Galván (born July 22, 1934) is a well-known Mexican actor who appeared in many telenovelas and movies. He appeared in over 200 television or movies related to Mexico or voice dubbing since 1960. He has won several awards throughout his career.

del Castillo was born on July 22, 1944 in Celaya, Guanajuato, Mexico. He is married to Kate Trillo. They have two children. He now lives in Mexico City, Mexico.


New College of Florida

New College of Florida is a public liberal arts college in Sarasota, Florida, in the United States. It started as a private college in 1960. In 2001, it became public.

Melissa Cristina Márquez


Changhua County

Changhua County () is a county in Taiwan. It is the smallest county on the island, though there are smaller counties on some of Taiwan's other islands. The capital is Changhua City.

About 1.3 million people live in this county. It has the second-largest population after Taoyuan City.

Chiayi County

Chiayi County () is a county in Taiwan. It is in the south-west of the island. It surrounds Chiayi City, but does not include it. The seat of the county's government is in Taibao. Chiayi is the sixth largest county in Taiwan. The National Chung Cheng University is in this county.

Dušan Dragosavac

Dušan Dragosavac (; 1 December 1919 – 21 December 2014) was a former Yugoslav politician. He was a Serb from Croatia. He was the Chairman of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia from 20 October 1981 until 20 June 1982.

He died on 21 December 2014, aged 95.


Pope Eleuterus

Pope Eleuterus (??? − 189) was thirteenth Pope, the official title is the Bishop of Rome of the Catholic Church from c. 174 to his death in 189. He was born in Nicopolis, Epirus, Greece.

In "Liber Pontificalis", it says that they ascribe a decree to Pope Eleutherius that no kind of food should be despised by Christians(Et hoc iterum firmavit ut nulla esca a Christianis repudiaretur, maxime fidelibus, quod Deus creavit, quæ tamen rationalis et humana est).

Underground cable

An underground cable is a cable that is buried below the ground. They distribute electrical power or telecommunications. Such cables are an alternative to overhead cables, which are several meters above the ground. Overhead cables are often replaced with underground cables. Downtown areas with many tall buildings usually have few or no cables above ground, This is mainly for aesthetic purposes because underground cables can not be seen. They are also less dangerous to people because they are out of the way. They cost more to install, but last longer.

It is a bit challenging to identify the fault in underground cable because it is located inside the earth. The fault mainly categorised in mainly in three based on occurrence. these are short circuit, Open circuit, and fault due to Breakdown cable insulation. It is impossible to detect visually, It required some testers like Underground Wire Locator to identify the fault

Pope Gelasius II

Pope Gelasius II (??? − 29 January 1119) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 24 January 1118 to his death in 29 January 1119. 

He was born in Gaeta, Principality of Capua and died in Cluny, Duchy of Burgundy, Kingdom of France. He was ordained a priest on 9 March 1118 after he fled to Gaeta. He returned to Rome in July under Norman protection after he excommunicated Henry V and the antipope.

Hualien County

Hualien County () is a county in Taiwan. It is the largest county in Taiwan in terms of area. It is located on the mountainous eastern coast.

It contains the Port of Hualien. It is famous for tourism.

Kinmen

Kinmen (or Quemoy) is a small group of islands close to the coast of China. It is governed by the Republic of China (Taiwan). It forms a county, Kinmen County (), of Fujian Province. The capital is Jincheng Township.

The county is claimed by the People's Republic of China (PRC) as part of its own Fujian Province. It is very close to Xiamen, no more than 2 kilometres.

Matsu Islands

The Matsu Islands () are a small group of islands in the Taiwan Strait. There are 19 islands.

They are governed as a county of the Republic of China (ROC), Lienchiang County (). This county is part of Fujian Province. It is the smallest county in the ROC.

Cross-Strait relations

Cross-strait relations () is the relations between the governments of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Republic of China (ROC). Neither government recognises one another. Both officially use the One-China policy. Under this policy, there is only one legitimate government of China. Both the PRC and the ROC claim to be that government.

Cross-strait relations are not international relations, where matters are handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is because both governments claim that each other's territory is part of their country. However, the relations are not purely domestic relations either.

Any interaction by the PRC's government with Taiwan is done by the Association of Relations Across the Taiwan Strait (ARATS). This is under the Taiwan Affairs Office of the PRC. Any interaction by the ROC's government with Mainland China is done by Strait Exchange Foundation (SEF) under the Mainland Affairs Council of the ROC.

The PRC's view is that Taiwan is part of PRC under the "One Country, Two Systems" () policy. This policy was introduced by Deng Xiaoping in 1984. The ROC's view is that Mainland China is part of the ROC under the "'One Country, Two Areas" () policy. This policy was introduced by Wu Po-hsiung in 2012.

However, currently both sides temporarily agree that both countries belong to One China. This was agreed under the "1992 consensus" () to facilitate cross-strait matters. The PRC regards Taiwan as part of the PRC, while the ROC regards Mainland China as part of the ROC.

Tainan Mosque

The Tainan Mosque () is a mosque in Tainan, Taiwan. It is the sixth mosque in Taiwan, and the first and only mosque in Tainan. The mosque was built in 1996.

A land was initially donated by an Chinese Muslim living in the United States to Taipei Grand Mosque. It was then transferred to Kaohsiung Mosque which managed the construction of the Tainan Mosque. Starting in 1983, they collected money for 10 years for the mosque construction, and the construction finally started in 1993 and the mosque was opened in 1996.

The mosque has four floors, which consists of prayer hall, shop, meeting room, ablution room and office.

At-Taqwa Mosque

The At-Taqwa Mosque () is a mosque in Dayuan Township, Taoyuan County, Taiwan. It is the seventh and latest mosque in Taiwan. The mosque was built in 2013.

The construction of the mosque was started by an Indonesian-Taiwanese couple who had an Indonesian shop around Dayuan. The couple purchased a land beside their shop to build a mosque. After collecting all of the money needed to make the mosque, the mosque was finally constructed and opened on 9 June 2013.

The establishment of the mosque shows that the number of Muslims is growing in Taiwan, where many of them work in factories, shops or houses. Many of those Muslims come from Indonesia. This can be considered as the fourth Muslim migration to Taiwan.

The mosque area is 130 square meters. It has three floors, where it consists of male prayer hall, female prayer hall, guess room, classes and dormitories.

Jamia Mosque (Hong Kong)

The Jamia Mosque or Shelley Street Mosque () is a mosque in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the first and oldest mosque in Hong Kong.

The original building of the mosque was built in 1890 during the British Hong Kong government as the Mohammedan Mosque on a piece of land rented by the government in 1850. In 1915, the building of the mosque was expanded and it was renamed to Jamia Mosque after World War II.

The mosque building is included into the Grade I Building in which it is considered as a historical building which needs to be protected and conserved.

Kowloon Masjid and Islamic Centre

The Kowloon Mosque and Islamic Centre () is a mosque and Islamic center in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the largest mosque and second mosque to be built in Hong Kong.

The original building of the mosque was built in 1896 at the site where the Tsim Sha Tsui police station now is located. The mosque served the Indian Muslim troops in British Hong Kong stationed at Whitfield Barracks. In the late 1970s, the mosque was relocated to its current site at Nathan Road by compensation given by MTR Corporation and donations from Muslims around Hong Kong.

The mosque was designed by architect I. M. Kadri. The building was designed with traditional Muslim architecture. The unique feature of this mosque are the four 11-meters-high minarets. There are three prayer halls, community hall, clinic and library. Around 3,500 people can fit into this mosque for prayer.

The mosque primarily serves the Hong Kong Muslims with origin from South Asia. Therefore, the most becomes an important place for the non-Chinese Muslims in Hong Kong.

Ammar Mosque and Osman Ramju Sadick Islamic Centre

The Ammar Mosque and Osman Ramju Sadick Islamic Centre () or Wan Chai Mosque is a mosque and Islamic center in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the third mosque in Hong Kong. The original building of the mosque was built in 1967.

The original building of the mosque was a small mosque besides a cemetery at 7 Seymore Street. In 1978, the mosque was relocated to a new place at Oi Kwan Road because the land was needed by the government to construct Aberdeen tunnel. The new mosque building was reopened on September 1981.

The mosque was designed by architect Ramju Sadick. The mosque has eight floors which consists of prayer hall, Chinese restaurant, bakery, clinic, classrooms, library and seminar room.

The mosque is the headquarter place for Incorporated Trustees of the Islamic Community Fund of Hong Kong (the main Islamic organization in Hong Kong) and the Hong Kong Islamic Youth Association.

Atoms for Peace (band)

Atoms for Peace is a band from California. They started in 2009. They did not have a name until February 2010. The members are Thom Yorke, Flea, Nigel Godrich, Joey Waronker, and Mauro Refosco. In February 2013, they released their first album, "Amok" on XL Recordings. The album charted at number 1 in nine countries. "Pitchfork" scored it 6.9/10.


Coal mining

Coal mining is the process of getting coal out of the ground. It is part of the mining industry. Coal is used as a resource for making electricity.

Surface mining is done when the coal is near the surface. Coal miners remove the soil above the coal. The coal can then be removed without the coal miners having to go deep underground..

Underground mining is when the coal is farther underground, making it too expensive to remove soil. In this process, coal miners and all of the coal mining equipment are brought deep underground and coal is carried up out of the ground. This is especially dangerous because of fires, explosions, and poison gas in coal mines.

Before coal can be used, it must be processed in a coal processing plant. It is made smaller using a sizer and crusher. Parts that might be harmful to any equipment which will use the coal later on, such as the screening for metallic parts inside the mined coal.

Coal is delivered to customers in several ways. Trucks, conveyors, trains and ships transport coal to be used in factories and power plants.

Mustafa Abdul Jalil

Mustafa Abdul Jalil (born 1952) is a Libyan politician. He was the Chairman (leader) of the National Transitional Council from 5 March 2011 until it ended on 8 August 2012. He supported the Libyan revolution. He was born in Badya. He is a Sunni Muslim.

PJ Harvey

Polly Jean Harvey MBE (born 9 October 1969) is an English musician. She is best known for being a singer and guitarist. Her music is usually released under the name PJ Harvey. She plays lots of instruments as well as the guitar. These include piano, organ, bass, saxophone, harmonica, and most recently, the autoharp. She has a contralto singing range. In June 2013, she made a Member of the Order of the British Empire for her music.

Harvey was born in Bridport, Dorset, England. She grew up on a farm in Corscombe, Dorset. 

In 1988, Harvey became a member of a band called Automatic Dlamini. The band was started by John Parish in 1983. She left it in January 1991. This was to make her own band with Rob Ellis and Steve Vaughan. The band was called the PJ Harvey Trio. 

Their first extended play was "Dress". In March 1992, she released her first album with them on Too Pure Records. It was called "Dry". It entered the UK Albums Chart at number 3. It got good reviews. The album's first single, "50ft Queenie", was released in April 1992.

The PJ Harvey Trio's second album "Rid of Me" was released by Island Records in May 1993. It reached number 27 in the UK Singles Chart. It was produced by Steve Albini and Head.

In August 1993, the band broke up. 

In 1995, Harvey released her first album on her own, "To Bring You My Love". It is her best-selling album in the United States. Three singles were released from it. The album was produced by Harvey, Flood, and John Parish. Parish also played guitar, organ, drums, and percussion on it.

In 1996, she released an album with John Parish. It was called "Dance Hall at Louse Point". That year she also sung on two songs called "Death is Not the End" and "Henry Lee" on Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds' album "Murder Ballads". "Henry Lee" was released as a single.

In 1998, she released "Is This Desire?". The reviews it got from critics were not as good as for "To Bring You My Love". However, "Is This Desire?"'s first single "A Perfect Day Elise" was Harvey's best-selling single in the UK so far. The album was nominated for Best Alternative Music Performance. Parish played guitar and keyboards on it. Harvey produced the album with Flood and Head.

Harvey acted in the 1998 movie "The Book of Life" and a short movie called "A Bunny Girl's Tale".

On 23 October 2000, "Stories from the City, Stories from the Sea" was released. In won the 2001 Mercury Prize. It is PJ Harvey's best-selling album in the UK so far. Thom Yorke is on three of the songs. In 2005 Rolling Stone put it at number 431 in their list Greatest Albums of All Time. The album's third single "This Is Love" was nominated for Best Rock Album and Best Female Rock Performance at the Grammy Awards.

Harvey's sixth album "Uh Huh Her" was released in 2004. In 2007 a band started called Uh Huh Her. They got their name from the album's title.

In 2007, "White Chalk" was released. Parish played instruments on it and sang. Harvey produced the album with Flood and Parish. Harvey released three singles from the album.

Harvey released her second album with John Parish, "A Woman a Man Walked By", in 2009.

"Let England Shake" was released in 2011. It got good reviews. "Pitchfork" gave it 8.8/10. It won the 2011 Mercury Prize. Two singles were released from it. John Parish plays instruments on it.

Mallika Sherawat

Mallika Sherawat (born October 24, 1976 as Reema Lamba) is an Indian actress. She was born in Rohtak to a Jat family. The first movie she acted in was the 2002 Bollywood movie "Jeena Sirf Merre Liye". She acted in the 2005 Chinese movie "The Myth". In 2010, "Hisss" was released. It was her first English movie. Sherawat played the main character, Naagin. In 2011, she was in another English movie, "The Politics of Love".


Yeah Yeah Yeahs

Yeah Yeah Yeahs is an indie rock band from New York City. They are two boys, Nick Zinner and Brian Chase, and one girl, Karen O. Karen O is the singer. They started in the world of music in 2000. In 2009 a second guitarist, David Pajo, joined the band and replaced Imad Wasif. They have four albums, which are: "Fever to Tell", the first, "Show Your Bones", the second, "It's Blitz!", the third, and the fourth, "Mosquito". They play different genres of music: alternative rock, indie rock, art punk, dance punk and post punk revival. They were nominated to the Grammy Awards on 3 occasions: "Fever to tell", "Show your bones" and "It’s blitz!". And they have had 7 nominations to the MTV Awards for three of their works: "Maps" in 2004, "Heads will roll" in 2009 and "Sacrilege" in 2013.

Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford

Lady Margaret Hall is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was established in 1878 as the first women's college at the University. It first admitted male students in 1979.

Bonfire Night

Bonfire Night is an event dedicated to celebration with bonfires or fireworks. Different traditions celebrate Bonfire Night on different days. In Great Britain, it is celebrated as Guy Fawkes Night on 5th November. Other versions of Bonfire Night are also celebrated on this date in several other Commonwealth countries. A similar bonfire tradition is celebrated in parts of Scandinavia and is known as Walpurgis Night.

Collateral (movie)

Collateral is a 2004 American crime thriller movie. This movie is set in Los Angeles. It is about a hit-man named Vincent who is out to murder several witnesses and a prosecutor. His main hostage, taxi driver Max, reluctantly agrees to do some harsh things along with him. Max, though, eventually has enough. He then shoots Vincent, killing him. Jamie Foxx plays Max and Tom Cruise plays Vincent. The movie was released in late August 2004. It became a success in the U.S. box office and worldwide. The reviews were excellent.

Passenger name record

Passenger name record is the name for a set of data in a database, which contains the path a passenger travelling with one or more airlines takes. In some cases, groups of people travelling together are stored in the same passenger name record. Passenger details often contain more information than that which is strictly necessary. Additional information stored includes the gender of the passenger, if the passenger is part of a frequent flyer programme, details about the ticket, or if the passenger has special meal requirements - for example vegetarian.

United States–European Union Agreement on Passenger Name Records.

On January 16, 2004, the Article 29 Working Party released their "Opinion 1/2004 (WP85)" on the level of PNR protection ensured in Australia for the transmission of Passenger Name Record data from airlines.

In 2010 the European Commission's Directorate-General for Justice, Freedom and Security was split in two. The resulting bodies were the Directorate-General for Justice (European Commission) and the Directorate-General for Home Affairs (European Commission).

On the 4th of May 2011, Stefano Manservisi, Director-General at the Directorate-General for Home Affairs (European Commission) wrote to the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) with regards to a PNR sharing agreement with Australia, a close ally of the US and signatory to the UKUSA Agreement on signals intelligence.

The EDPS responded on the 5th of May in "Letter 0420 D845":

The Article 29 Working Party document "Opinion 1/2005 on the level of protection ensured in Canada for the transmission of Passenger Name Record and Advance Passenger Information from airlines (WP 103)", 19 January 2005, offers information on the nature of PNR agreements with Canada.

In India PNR is used by Indian Railway as Passenger Name Record Usually Travelers need it to check their confirmation of their seats. It is a 10 Digit Number which has to be entered on website for checking PNR Status .


David Karp

David Karp (born July 6, 1986) is an American entrepreneur who started the website Tumblr in 2007. He sold the website to Yahoo! for US$1.1 billion in 2013. He was born in New York City. He started learning HTML when he was 11. When he was 15 he stopped going to high school. He was taught at home instead. In 2013, "Forbes" said that Karp's net worth is more than $200 million. His cultural and ethnic background is Jewish.


Kwame Kilpatrick

Kwame Malik Kilpatrick (born June 8, 1970) is an American politician. He was a Michigan state representative and mayor of Detroit. He is a Democrat. Kilpatrick was mayor of Detroit from 2002 until he resigned in 2008. In spring 2013, Kilpatrick was sentenced to almost 28 years in prison after being declared guilty on many criminal charges, including fraud. He went to federal prison in eastern Michigan.

John of Damascus

Saint John of Damascus ( 675 or 676 – 4 December 749) was a Christian leader from Damascus. He was a monk and a priest (a Christian preacher). He was born and raised in Damascus, which is today the capital of the country of Syria. He died in the Jerusalem in Palestine, at the Mar Saba monastery.

John of Damascus studied religion. He also studied law, theology, philosophy and music. He is said by some sources to have served as a Chief Administrator to the Muslim caliph of Damascus before he became a priest. He wrote works about Christianity. He composed hymns that are still used by Greek Orthodox churches around the world. He is considered "the last of the Fathers" of the Eastern Orthodox church. He is best known for arguing to let people use pictures of Greek Orthodox saints, which are called "icons". He is also honored by Catholic churches, specifically the Roman Catholic Church.

Pope Leo IV

Pope Saint Leo IV (790 – 17 July 855) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 10 April 847 until he died in 855. 

He was born in Rome. He died in Rome on 17 July 855 and was buried in St. Peter's Basilica. There was a medieval tradition that had claimed that a woman, Pope Joan, had succeeded him by disguising herself as a man but she is believed to be fictitious.

Rosamund Pike

Rosamund Pike (born 27 January 1979) is an English actress. She became known in the 2002 movie "Die Another Day" in which she played the Bond girl and double agent Miranda Frost. She also played Helen in the 2012 melodrama movie "Jack Reacher". Her role in "Gone Girl" got her an Academy Award nomination. Pike was born in London.

Pope John XV

Pope John XV (??? − March 996) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from August 985 to his death in 996. 

He was born in Rome, Papal States and died in March 996 in Rome, Papal States, Holy Roman Empire.

During his time as pope, there was a dispute that arose over the deposition in 991 of Arnulf, Archbishop of Reims. Arnulf was made archbishop of Reims in 988 by Hugh Capet of France. Arnulf was the nephew of the King's bitter rival, Charles of Lorraine and considered Arnulf a turncoat. He demanded his deposition by John XV. Hugh Capet captured both Charles and Archbishop Arnulf and convoked a synod at Reims in June 991. He deposed Arnulf and chose as his successor Abbot Gerbert of Aurillac who would later be known as Pope Silvester II.

At the synod, Arnulf, Bishop of Orléans accused John XV:

Die Another Day

Die Another Day is a 2002 British action thriller spy movie directed by the movie director Lee Tamahori. It is about James Bond going across North Korea trying to get redemption. Pierce Brosnan plays James Bond, Halle Berry plays Bond's ally agent Jinx, and Rosamund Pike plays the double agent Miranda Frost. The movie received mixed reviews but was a box office success. The movie was released on November 22, 2002. Madonna sings the title song of the movie.


Black Friday

Black Friday is the day after Thanksgiving in the United States. Even though it falls on a Friday, which is the last day before the weekend, and comes right after Thanksgiving Thursday, it is not a federal holiday. There are some states, however, that observe this day instead of Columbus Day for workers of the state government.

The name "Black Friday" started to be used sometime after World War II, but it was not popular outside of Philadelphia until around 1975

Many Americans see Black Friday as the official beginning of the Christmas holiday season, a time when many people go shopping for gifts to give to their family and friends on Christmas Day. On Black Friday, many stores have big sales, and it is common to see long lines of people waiting outside stores and in malls to get the best deals first before they run out. Because of this, stores usually open around 6 am in the morning or later. Some stores, though, started opening at 5 am and even 4 am in the late 20th century. Now, a few stores even open at midnight. Shoppers like to stay out all day to get what they need, making Black Friday the busiest shopping day of the year. 

On the first Monday after the long weekend is Cyber Monday, when many people go online shopping.

Lions in heraldry

Lions appear in heraldry more often than any other animal. It traditionally symbolises bravery, valour, strength, and royalty.

They may appear as a charge on the shield or as a crest. They are described in the "blazon" (heraldic description) by their "tincture" (color) and "attitude" (position). Sometimes the teeth and claws of a lion can be colored differently from the rest of its body; it is said to be "armed" of that color (e.g. "A lion Or armed gules" is a gold lion with red teeth and claws). Sometimes the tail is even described, if it is shown in an unusual way. One reason why lions are shown in so many different ways is because when heraldry developed, a lot of people wanted a lion on their coat of arms, but no two coats of arms can be the same. The purpose of heraldry in the Middle Ages was to identify people with bold images over the outside of their armour. Since a lot of people started putting lions on their coats of arms, they placed them in a lot of different positions and in every color used in heraldry. In France and Germany, they even made patterns of colors on some of their lions, as if they were painted.

French heralds refer to lions in the walking positions as "leopards", but this term is seldom used by British heralds.

Although there are many "attitudes" or positions now used in heraldry, very few of these were known to medieval heralds, who simply wanted to draw a lion to fill the space provided on the shield. The following table describes the different attitudes of heraldic lions:

Other terms are used to describe the lion's position in further detail. The lion's head is normally seen in agreement with the overall position, (facing left) unless otherwise stated. If a lion's "whole body" is turned to face right, he is "to sinister" or "contourné". If his "whole body" faces the viewer, he is "affronté". If his "head only" faces the viewer he is "guardant" or "gardant", and if he looks back over his shoulder (body facing left but head turned to face right) he is "regardant". These words follow the main description of position, and then the lion is further described as "armed" (teeth and claws) of another color, if another color is used. And finally, the tail may be described if it is unusual. A lion (or other beast) "coward" carries its tail between its hind legs. The tail also may be "nowed" (knotted), or the lion may be "queue fourchée" (forked tail) or "double-queued" (two tails).



Monkwearmouth–Jarrow Abbey

Monkwearmouth–Jarrow was a combination of two English monasteries run as a single community. Both were founded by Benedict Biscop. Monkwearmouth, built first, was a magnificent example of the Roman style of architecture. It housed one of the first stained glass works in England. Jarrow became the center of Anglo-Saxon learning in the north of England and contained the largest library in Anglo-Saxon England. Bede, the great Anglo-Saxon scholar, studied, taught and wrote there. The sister Anglo-Saxon monasteries were the UK nomination for World Heritage Site status in 2011.

In 674 Benedict Biscop, a Northumbrian nobleman, built a monastery known as Monkwearmouth. Egfrith, King of Northumbria gave him fifty hides of land at the mouth of the River Wear. This monastery would be dedicated to Saint Peter and came to be called St. Peter's at Monkwearmouth. Benedict wanted his monastery to be a center of both learning and religion. Benedict used Frankish stonemasons who he brought over to England to construct the monastery. Monkwearmouth was the first (and Jarrow the second) church structures to be built of stone in England. Benedict them brought over glassmakers from Frankia to fit the windows of the church and chapels with fine stained glass. They established a workshop there at Monkwearwolf. Within a year the monastery was completed. In 678 a letter from Pope Agatho exempted the monastery from external control. Benedict got all the , sacred vessels, decorations and . Some he found locally while others he bought in Francia and Rome. In 682 King Egfrith gave another forty hides of land to Benedict for a second monastery. It was to be at the mouth of the River Trent at Jarrow. The dedication ceremony for Jarrow abbey was held on 23 April 685. Named for Saint Paul when the sister monastery was completed Benedict assigned Ceolfrith to the abbot. Bede, who was about ten years old at the time, was one of the monks who went with him. King Egfrid, who was at the dedication, died in battle against the Picts less than a month later. The two sister abbeys, only seven miles apart, were thought of as one. 
The library that Benedict started made it possible for Bede to write his works including his famous "Ecclesiastical History of the English People".information from. There wasn't another library like it in England. By the time of his death in 689 Benedict had completed four trips to Rome and the south and brought back large collections of books each time. The full extent of Bede's work would still not be possible if not for Ceolfrid, the fourth abbot. He doubled the size of the library left by Benedict Biscop.

The at Monkwearmouth-Jarrow was kept very busy. There was a growing demand for copies of bibles, books, documents and especially the works of Bede. Requests came in from other parts of England and the . Works from the scriptorium would be found in Leningrad, Rome, and other parts of Europe. Under increasing requests for its products, the Monkwearmouth-Jarrow scriptorium adopted a faster script style used in later works.

In 794, just a year after the Vikings sacked Lindisfarne, the Vikings attacked Monkwearmouth and Jarrow. The flames were so hot the glass was melted. Both sites were abandoned for a time. Their location on the coast of Northumbria made them easy targets for Viking raids. The twin monasteries were rebuilt. Unlike many old ruins that disappear over time, the old walls of Monkwearmouth and Jarrow can still be seen. They are next to or part of the modern buildings that replaced the original buildings built in 674 and 682.


Wrecking Ball (Miley Cyrus song)

"Wrecking Ball" is a song performed by Miley Cyrus. It was released on August 25, 2013. "Wrecking Ball" is a pop song which is about the ending of a relationship. It was thought to be inspired by Cyrus' former engagement to Australian actor Liam Hemsworth. "Wrecking Ball" was the Vevo record with most views in the first 24 hours after its release, and the record for being the fastest clip to reach 100 million views on the service. The record was broken in 2014 by Anaconda of Nicki Minaj.

The song was controversial for the music video that had Cyrus wearing a white crop top & a white panties while riding a wrecking ball.

Troublemaker (Olly Murs song)

"Troublemaker" is a song by Olly Murs. He also wrote the song. It was released on October 12, 2012. The song features Flo Rida. "Troublemaker" was a major commercial success. It was a success across the United Kingdom and the United States. It also served as the closing song at Murs's 2013 arena tour.

Green Acres

Green Acres is an American sitcom that was produced by Filmways and released by Orion Pictures (now Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer). "Green Acres" stars Eddie Albert and Eva Gabor as a couple who move from New York City to a rural country farm in the fictional community of Hooterville. The show also had supporting roles by Tom Lester, Frank Cady, Pat Buttram, Alvy Moore, Hank Patterson, Barbara Pepper, and several others. "Green Acres" is a sister show to "Petticoat Junction" which also takes place in Hooterville.

"Green Acres" was created by Jay Sommers who was also a writer and executive producer for "Petticoat Junction". The idea of "Green Acres" came from a radio show which Sommers directed and produced. The series was first broadcast on CBS on September 15, 1965, and was canceled on April 27, 1971. During its run, "Green Acres" had six seasons with a total of 170 episodes.

Main characters
Supporting characters
Characters from "Petticoat Junction"

Hal Linden

Hal Linden (born Harold Lipshitz; March 20, 1931) is an American stage and screen actor, television director and musician. Linden is known for his role as Cpt. Barney Miller in "Barney Miller". He won two special Daytime Emmy Awards and a Tony Award. Linden is the spokesman for the Jewish National Fund, a position he has held since 1997. Linden was born in New York City, New York.


Ted Kaczynski

Theodore John "Ted" Kaczynski (May 22, 1942 – June 10, 2023) was an American mathematician who was known as the Unabomber. Between 1978 and 1995, Kaczynski engaged in a nationwide bombing campaign against people involved with modern technology, planting or mailing numerous home-made bombs, ultimately killing a total of three people and injuring 23 others.

Kaczynski was born in Chicago and raised in Evergreen Park, Illinois. Kaczynski was accepted to Harvard University at the age of 16. He earned an undergraduate degree. He then earned a PhD in mathematics from the University of Michigan. Kacyznski was a child prodigy who did well in mathematics. He became an assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley in 1967 at age 25. He resigned two years later.

In 1971, he moved to a cabin without electricity or running water, in Lincoln, Montana. He lived there while learning survival skills. From 1978 to 1995, Kaczynski sent 16 bombs to targets including universities and airlines, killing three people and injuring 23.

Kaczynski sent a letter to The New York Times on April 24, 1995. 

Kaczynski was arrested in his cabin on April 3, 1996. His brother, David, called the police so that they could arrest him. He pleaded guilty of his crimes on January 22, 1998. He was an inmate of ADX Florence, Fremont County, Colorado. On December 14, 2021, he was moved from ADX Florence to the Federal Medical Center, Butner, North Carolina after being diagnosed with late-stage cancer.

Kaczynski wrote many books, "Industrial Society and Its Future, ", and "Technological Slavery" are his most famous. "Industrial Society and Its Future" was best known as the "Unabomber's Manifesto".

At 12:23 a.m. on June 10, 2023, he was found in his cell unresponsive. He was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead. Prison officials believe he committed suicide. 


Opposing Viewpoints series

Opposing Viewpoints is a series of books on current events. It tries to explore the many different opinions of each event in the style of a debate. The series tries to encourage critical thinking and public awareness by providing opposing views on issues that have been debated.



Evergreen Park, Illinois

Evergreen Park is a village in Cook County, Illinois, United States. It is a suburb of Chicago. The population was 19,943 at the 2020 census. Serial killer Theodore Kaczynski was born here in 1942 and Playboy model Jenny McCarthy was also born here in 1972.

Price Tower

The Price Tower is a nineteen-story, 221-foot-high tower in Bartlesville, Oklahoma. It was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. It is the only well-known skyscraper by Wright, and is one of only two vertically buildings designed by Wright. The Price Tower was commissioned by Harold C. Price of the H. C. Price Company, a local oil pipeline and chemical firm. It opened to the public in February 1956.


Imperial Hotel, Tokyo

The Imperial Hotel, Tokyo is a hotel in Tokyo. It was built in the late 1880s at the request of the Japanese aristocracy to increase Western visitors to Japan. It was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. The hotel site is located just south of the Imperial Palace grounds, next to the previous location of the Palace moat. 

The modern hotel overlooks the Palace, the western-style Hibiya Park, and the Ginza neighborhood. Three buildings have stood on the hotel site, each of which embodied the finest western design of its era. The hotel eventually slipped into decay as time took its toll. In a controversial decision, it was decided to demolish the old hotel and replace it with a high-rise structure, to maximize the use of land.


Yury Yakovlev

Yury Vasilyevich Yakovlev (25 April 1928 – 30 November 2013) was a Russian movie and stage actor. Yakovlev appeared in over 100 Russian-language movies.

His most popular movies include; "The Irony of Fate", "Anna Karenina", "", and in "Hussar Ballad". He has won many awards throughout his career including Russia's highest civilian honor the Order of Lenin.

Yakovlev was born on 25 April 1928 in Moscow, Soviet Union. He studied at the Vakhtangov Theatre. Yakovlev was married three times. He had one son, Anton. Yakovlev now lived in Moscow, Russia.

Yakovlev felt ill in early morning of 29 November 2013. He soon fainted in his home. He was rushed to a Moscow hospital where he died there on 30 November 2013 from heart failure, aged 85.


Arnold Peralta

Arnold Peralta (29 March 1989 – 10 December 2015) was a Honduran football player. He played as a defensive midfielder for C.D.S. Vida, Rangers F.C. and Olimpia. He also played for the Honduras national football team. He represented Honduras in seven FIFA World Cup qualification games.

Peralta was shot dead sixteen times by an unknown gunman on 10 December 2015 in his hometown of La Ceiba, aged 26.

Fujian Province, Republic of China

Fujian Province or Fukien Province () is a province of the Republic of China. Its capital is Jincheng Township in Kinmen County.



Palais Royal

The Palais Royal is a building in Paris. It was once a palace of the French royal family. It was built in the 1630s by Cardinal Richelieu to hold his art collection. When Richelieu died in 1642, it became the property of the young King Louis XIV. It was successively the property of the Dukes of Orléans and later Marie Antoinette before being destroyed in 1870 during the Franco-Prussian War. 

From 1649, the exiled Henrietta Maria of France and her daughter Princess Henrietta lived here. The two had escaped England during the English Civil War. They were sheltered here by King Louis XIV, who was Henrietta Maria's nephew.

In 1692, when the Duke of Chartres (future Regent of France) married Françoise Marie de Bourbon, the King gave the Palais Royal to his brother, Philippe of France, Duke of Orléans, ""Monsieur"".

Louis Philippe I, future King of the French, was born here. He was the son of the young Philippe Égalité and his wife Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon.

Louise Henriette de Bourbon also died here. She was married to Louis Philippe, Duke of Orléans. The future Louis Philippe I was also born here.



Julia Serano

Julia Serano (born 1967) is a transsexual American writer, biologist, musician, poet, and activist. She lives in Oakland, California. In 2007 her first full-length book Whipping Girl: A Transsexual Woman on Sexism and the Scapegoating of Femininity" was published by Seal Press. In October 2013 was published. Her essays have also been published on websites and in magazines and books about feminism.

Serano did a PhD in biochemistry and molecular biophysics at Columbia University. Serano worked at UC Berkeley as a researcher for seventeen years.

She was a member of the indie rock band Bitesize.

Serano is a feminist. She is bisexual.

For years she was a crossdresser. She wore clothes made for women but still called herself a man. In 1998 Serano moved to the San Francisco Bay Area. There she met her wife Dani. Around this time Serano started identifying as bigender and transgender. In 2001 she started identifying as a trans woman. She calls herself a "femme tomboy".

In 2002 made a chapbook called "Either/Or". In 2004 she made a chapbook called "Draw Blood".
In 2005 Serano made a chapbook called "On the Outside Looking In: A Trans Woman's Perspective on Feminism and the Exclusion of Trans Women from Lesbian and Women-only Spaces".

Serano's first book "Whipping Girl" talks about transmisogyny. Transmisogyny is a word that Serano uses to talk about a kind of misogyny (woman-hating) that is experienced by trans women. "Whipping Girl" has updated versions of three of the four essays in "On the Outside Looking In".

In her second book "Excluded", Serano wrote about how feminist and queer movements have left out transgender women, feminine people, bisexuals, sex workers, and others.

In both of her books Serano talks about how gender is not a performance.

Judith Butler

Judith Butler (born February 24, 1956) is an American philosopher. They were born in Ohio. They got their PhD in philosophy from Yale University in 1984. They live in Berkeley, California, with their partner Wendy Brown. In 1990, their book "Gender Trouble" was published by Routledge. It is considered an important work in modern feminism. In the book Butler talks about their theory of gender performativity, which is that gender, along with sex and sexuality, is something you "perform" rather than an expression of human biology. In other politics, they have supported Palestine and the Democratic Party, including Hillary Clinton and Kamala Harris.

Butler was born a female in Ohio and went to Hebrew school. They studied at Bennington College in the 70s before moving on to study philosophy at Yale University. They publicly classified themselves as non-binary in 2020.

Melissa Harris-Perry

Melissa Victoria Harris-Perry (born October 2, 1973) is an American television host and writer. She hosts a television programme on MSNBC called "Melissa Harris-Perry". 

She got a Ph.D. in political science from Duke University in 1999. That year she married Dennis Lacewell. She divorced him in 2005. She is a professor of political science at Tulane University. In 2004 her first book "Barbershops, Bibles, and BET: Everyday Talk and Black Political Thought" was published. In 2011 Yale Press published Perry's book "Sister Citizen: Shame, Stereotypes, and Black Women in America".


Enrico Letta

Enrico Letta (born 20 August 1966) is an Italian politician. He is the Secretary of the Democratic Party since 2021. He was the Prime Minister of Italy (head of government) from 2013 to 2014. Previously, he had also been a member of several Italian governments, as of 1998. In April 2015 he announced that he was not going to be a professional politician anymore, and that he wanted to concentrate on academia.

He was born in Pisa, Tuscany. He is married to Gianna Fregonara and has 3 children.

In October 2021, Letta won the by-election for the Siena district with 49.9% of votes, returning to the Parliament after six years. 

Chancellor, South Dakota

Chancellor is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 300 people lived there at the 2020 census. Chancellor was started in 1886.

Prime Minister of Italy

The prime minister of Italy, officially President of the Council of Ministers, is the head of government of Italy.

As of , there are ten living former prime ministers. The most recent death of a former prime minister was that of Arnaldo Forlani (1980–1981) on 6 July 2023.

Davis, South Dakota

Davis is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 54 people lived there at the 2020 census. Davis became a town in 1896.

Dolton, South Dakota

Dolton is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 34 people lived there at the 2020 census. Dolton became a town in 1909.

Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport

Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport , is a major airport in the United States. It is in the Detroit area and serves all the city. It is one of the busiest airports in the United States and gets many passengers. It has many international and domestic destinations. It is one of Delta Airlines biggest airport hubs after Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta. It is also a hub of Spirit Airlines. Its many destinations include cities in North America, South America, Europe, and Asia.

Helipad

A helicopter landing pad (helipad) is a landing area for helicopters, like a runway for an airplane.


Korean Air

Korean Air is the flag carrier and largest airline of South Korea. Its headquarters are in Seoul. It has two hubs at both airports in Seoul, the major international airport Incheon International Airport and the smaller domestic airport Seoul Gimpo. Korean Air has planes from both Boeing and Airbus, including the Boeing 747 and Airbus 380. These fly to destinations all over the world, including places in Asia, Africa, Europe, South America, and North America.


Titanic II (movie)

Titanic II is a disaster-drama movie from 2010 produced by Shane Van Dyke and distribution by The Asylum. It is not a sequel to the movie from 1997. 

Certain movie websites, however, say this movie may be a mock of the 1997 hit movie. The movie "Titanic II" is about the "SS Titanic II" luxury liner sent on a maiden voyage exactly 100 years after the original RMS "Titanic", except the "Titanic II" is operating in reverse opposite the original ship. The more recent ship exits New York City and heads to United Kingdom at Southampton. Like the earlier ship, however, she crashes into an iceberg, killing most of the ship's passengers and crew. Only a handful of people survive. "Titanic II" was condemned by many critics as a rip-off of James Cameron's 1997 movie. The criticisms involved mostly plot and movie directions.


Brooke Burns

Brooke Burns (born March 16, 1978) is an American actress, fashion model and television personality She acts mostly in movies which are direct to video and in certain television programs. She starred as Jennifer Cullen in the television movie "The Most Wonderful Time of the Year" in 2008. Burns was born in Dallas, Texas.

Linacre College, Oxford

Linacre College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1962, and was the third graduate-only college at the University. It was the first graduate college founded at Oxford to admit both male and female students. 

Botanical name

A botanical name is a formal scientific name which follows the "International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants" (ICN). If it concerns a plant cultigen, the additional cultivar term must follow the "International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants". 

The code of nomenclature covers "all organisms traditionally treated as plants, whether fossil or non-fossil, e.g. blue-green algae (Cyanobacteria); fungi, including chytrids, oomycetes, and slime moulds; photosynthetic protists and taxonomically related non-photosynthetic groups".

The purpose of a formal name is to have a single name which is accepted and used worldwide for a particular plant or plant group. For example, the botanical name "Bellis perennis" was given to a plant species which is native to most of the countries of Europe and the Middle East, where it has various names in many languages. Later it has been introduced worldwide, bringing it into contact with more languages.

Some English names for this plant species are: daisy, English daisy, lawndaisy. In other languages, some examples are: , , , .

The cultivar "Bellis perennis" 'Aucubifolia' is a golden-variegated horticultural selection of this species. 

Depending on rank, botanical names may be in one part (genus and above), two parts (species and above, but below the rank of genus) or three parts (below the rank of species):




A name in three parts, i.e., an infraspecific name (a name for a taxon below the rank of species), needs a "connecting term" to indicate rank. In the "Calystegia" example above, this is "subsp." (for subspecies). In botany there are many ranks below that of species (in zoology there is only one such rank, subspecies, so that this "connecting term" is unnecessary there). A name of a "subdivision of a genus" also needs a connecting term (in the "Acacia" example above, this is "subg.", subgenus). The connecting term is not part of the name itself. 

For botanical nomenclature, the "ICBN" prescribes a two-part name or binary name for any taxon below the rank of genus down to, and including the rank of species. Taxa below the rank of species get a three part name. 

A binary name consists of the name of a genus and an epithet.






Jean Kent

Jean Kent (Joan Mildred Summerfield; 29 June 1921 – 30 November 2013) was a British movie and television actress. She was also known as Jean Carr. She was born in Brixton, London. Kent was known for her role as Mille Harris in "The Browning Version".

Kent died in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk on 30 November 2013, aged 92. She died following a fall a few days earlier at her home in Westhorpe, Suffolk.


House of Orléans

The House of Orléans was a French noble and royal family. It descends from Louis XIV of France and his only brother Philippe, Duke of Orléans. The families main traditional home was the Palais Royal in Paris. The family later became very powerful during the reign of Louis Philippe I. He ruled France under the title "King of the French". The king successfully married his children into other royal families of Europe.

The present head of the house is Prince Henri of Orléans. He is known as the Count of Paris. He also claims the title King of the French, but is known simply as "His Royal Highness The Count of Paris" and sometimes the "Duke of France". However, the titles are not officially recognised because France is no longer a monarchy. Henri has been a claimant to the throne since 1999. The Count was married to Duchess Marie Thérèse of Württemberg. She is herself a daughter of a one-time claimant to the throne of Württemberg.

Vicente Aleixandre

Vicente Pío Marcelino Cirilo Aleixandre y Merlo (April 26, 1898 – December 14, 1984) was a Spanish poet. He was born in Seville. Aleixandre won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1977. He was part of the Generation of '27. He died in Madrid from tuberculosis in 1984.


Airline alliance

An airline alliance is an agreement of two or more airlines to work with each other. The three largest airline alliances are Star Alliance, SkyTeam, and Oneworld. Airline alliances make it easier for passengers to travel around the world, often by codeshare agreements, with fewer stops or connections. The biggest alliance is Star Alliance, with 28 member airlines such as United, Lufthansa, and Air Canada. The second biggest is SkyTeam, with 19 members including Delta, KLM, and Air France. The third biggest alliance is Oneworld, with 13 members including American Airlines, British Airways, and Qantas.

Membership and market data for the largest airline alliances (as of March 2013) 


Star Alliance

Star Alliance is the world's first and largest airline alliance. Its headquarters are in Frankfurt, Hesse, Germany. It was founded in 1999 by five airlines: Scandinavian Airlines, Thai Airways International, Air Canada, Lufthansa, and United Airlines. Varig Brazilian Airlines was the first airline to join, in 1997. In 2013, the alliance now has 28 member airlines with more than 21,100 daily departures combined. These flights fly to 1,329 airports in more than 150 countries, carrying 678.7 million passengers.
Founding member. 


Grand Prairie, Texas

Grand Prairie is a city in Dallas County, Tarrant County, Ellis County in the state of Texas. It is a rather big city with a population of 196,100 people in 2020. Grand Prairie is part of a bigger region known as the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex made up of Dallas and Fort Worth and their suburbs or cities outside of them.


Dallas County, Texas

Dallas County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2020, the population was 2,613,539.

The head of the county and biggest city is Dallas. It is the second most populated county in Texas after Harris County. It is the ninth most populated in the whole United States.

The county has a total area of 909 square miles.

These school districts are in Dallas County:






People's Liberation Army

The People's Liberation Army (or simply PLA) is the armed forces of the Communist Party of China. The army was established (founded) on August 1, 1927. The People's Liberation Army is the largest military force in the world. It has about 2,250,000 personnel or employees (about 0.18% of the population of China) under the Central Military Commission.

The PLA consists of five main branches: the PLA Ground Force, PLA Navy (PLAN), PLA Air Force (PLAAF), Second Artillery Corps (strategic missile force), and the PLA Reserve Force. Military service is compulsory (required) of for all men and women who reach the age of 18.

Taiwan Province, People's Republic of China

Taiwan () is the claimed province by the People's Republic of China (PRC) government to be part of PRC, although officially it is currently under the control of the Republic of China (ROC) government. The recognized capital of the country is Taipei City.

Taiwan Province of the PRC doesn't include Kinmen County and Lienchiang County (as currently under the control of ROC government) because those countries are considered to be part of the Fujian Province of the PRC.

Quake

Quake usually means an earthquake, a shaking of the earth's surface.

Quake can also mean:



No Ordinary Love

"No Ordinary Love" is a 1992 ballad. It is from the album "Love Deluxe" by singer Sade. It was in the 1993 movie "Indecent Proposal". The song hit #26 in Ireland, United Kingdom and Scotland. In June 1993, the song became a hit across the world. Sade won a Grammy Award for this ballad in early 1994. The full ballad is seven minutes and 21 seconds in length. The single edit is five minutes and 22 seconds.

Paul Walker

Paul William Walker IV (September 12, 1973 – November 30, 2013)was an American actor, philanthropist and stuntman. He is best known for portraying Brian O'Conner in "The Fast and the Furious" film series. The first movie that he acted in was "Monster in the Closet" where he portrayed "Professor" Bennett. Before he died, he appeared on the National Geographic Channel series Expedition Great White.

Walker died in a car accident on November 30, 2013 at the age of 40.

Paul William Walker IV was born in Glendale, California.His parents were Cheryl (née Crabtree), a fashion model and Paul William Walker III, a sewer contractor and a two-time Golden Gloves champion boxer.Paul was of mostly English ancestry, with a smaller amount of German roots. His paternal grandfather, a professional boxer, had English immigrant grandparents.One of his grandfathers raced factory cars for Ford in the 1960s.He was the oldest of five children. Walker was raised in the Sunland community of Los Angeles. He attended high school in the San Fernando Valley. He graduated from Sun Valley's Village Christian Schools in 1991.He was raised as a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.After high school, Walker attended several community colleges in Southern California, majoring in marine biology.

On the afternoon of November 30, 2013, it was reported that Walker was the passenger in a friend's car when the driver lost control and crashed into a tree. The car exploded and burst into flames, killing both Walker and the driver.


Number of the Beast

The number of the Beast (from ) is the fear of the number 666. It comes from the Biblical verse Revelation , which says that the number 666 is the number of the beast, associated with Satan or the Antichrist.

A well-known example of this fear is Nancy and Ronald Reagan, who, in 1989, when moving to their home in Bel-Air, Los Angeles, had its address changed from 666 St. Cloud Road to 668 St. Cloud Road. Another well-known example was the U.S. Route 666, where accidents and incidents were common. It is known as "Devil's Highway" and renamed to U.S. Route 491.

British hip hop

British hip hop (also British rap) is a genre of music. The style happens across Ireland, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales and England. British rap music was officially observed from the 1980s-afterward, though it might have begun far earlier. Among UK rap artists who moved to the United States at young ages are Slick Rick and Young MC (aka Marvin Young).

American Colony, Jerusalem

The American Colony in Jerusalem was a colony in Jerusalem, Israel. It was established by an American and Swedish Christian utopian group in 1881. During the British Mandate of Palestine, the colony was occupied by Jordan until the Six-Day War in 1967. 

The cemetery of the colony is located in the National Garden of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Mount Scopus.


Russian Compound

The Russian Compound in Jerusalem is an old district in central Jerusalem. It began as a Russian colony in the 19th century. It is centred around a large Russian Orthodox church. The main square in the Russian Compound is Moscow Square.


Maumee, Ohio

Maumee is a city in northwest Ohio. It is close to Toledo. At the 2020 census, almost 13,896 people lived there. The name of the city is pronounced "mommy". The name was derived from an Native American tribe. It was established in the 19th century.

Brendan O'Neill (journalist)

Brendan O'Neill is the editor of "Spiked Online", an internet magazine about politics. He also writes for "The Big Issue", "The Australian", and "The Daily Telegraph".


Speciesism

Speciesism is thinking that humans are better than animals (although humans are technically also animals). It is also treating animals worse than humans. For example, humans often kill animals to eat. Humans rarely kill and eat other humans. The word 'speciesism' was first used in 1970 by Richard D. Ryder, an English philosopher, in a pamphlet called "Speciesism". It was made popular by Peter Singer's 1975 book "Animal Liberation". In the book the name of the fifth chapter was "Man's Dominion ... a short history of speciesism". The word 'speciesism' was first put in the "Oxford English Dictionary" in 1985.

In 2013 a documentary movie about speciesism called "" was released. It was made by Mark Devries. In it he compares factory farming to slavery and the Holocaust.

German Colony, Jerusalem

The German Colony in Jerusalem is a neighbourhood in Jerusalem. It began as a colony established by German Templars in 1873. The colony was built in the Valley of Rephaim on the way to Bethlehem, next to the Greek Colony. The main street of the neighbourhood today is Emek Refaim Street. The Rephaim River passes through the valley. It is also known as "White Valley".


Greek Colony, Jerusalem

The Greek Colony is a neighbourhood in Jerusalem. It started as a colony of Greeks in 1900. The Greek Colony is next to the German Colony at the end of Emek Refaim Street.

Richard D. Ryder

Richard Hood Jack Dudley Ryder (born 1940) is a British writer and psychologist. In 1969 he became involved with animal rights; he protested against an otter hunt in Dorset. In 1970 he made a new word, "speciesism". He used it in a pamphlet called "Speciesism". It is now in the Oxford Dictionary. Ryder made a theory called painism in 1990. In 2001 a book that Ryder wrote about his theory of painism was published. It was called "Painism: A Modern Morality". Painism is the idea that any being that feels pain deserves rights.

Ryder was born in Purbeck in Dorset. He grew up in Corfe Castle. 

In 1971 an essay that Ryder wrote about animal testing was published in the book "Animals, Men and Morals".

In 1972 he joined the Council of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA). Ryder helped to organize the first academic conference about animal rights. The conference was in August 1977 at Trinity College, Cambridge. In 1977 he became the chairman of the RSPCA. He stopped being the chairman in 1979.

His first book, "Victims of Science", was first published in 1975. It is about how animals were used in scientific research at the time it was written.


Clare Balding

Clare Victoria Balding (born 29 January 1971) is a British television presenter. She was born in Kingsclere, Hampshire. She is openly lesbian. In 2009, she was diagnosed with thyroid cancer. She recovered later that year. In 2012, a book she wrote about her life was published. It was called "My Animals and Other Family". In February 2013, Woman's Hour, a programme on BBC Radio 4, put her on their list of the most powerful women in the UK. Balding presented "Britain's Brightest" in 2013.

De Colores

De Colores is a common folk song in the Spanish-speaking world. Today, it is the anthem of the United Farm Workers movement.

No one knows for sure when the song first began to be sung in the Americas. The melody is thought to have been used in North and South America since the 16th century, having been brought over from Spain in the colonial era. However, the version of the lyrics sung today is thought to have been created by a group of Cursillo participants in Majorca, Spain, after one of the earliest Cursillo retreats in the 1940s.

Today, in addition to being used as the unofficial anthem of the United Farm Workers movement, and as an inspirational song in Cursillo workshops, the song is often taught in schools in the United States—from elementary school to community colleges—as an example of a common American folk song. It often appears in collections of children's songs.

"De colores" is usually sung in Spanish, but there are different English translations of the song. The song has also been translated into other languages. The lyrics depict an expression of joy and a celebration of all creation with its many bright colors. Below are four of the most commonly heard verses. Many additional verses (and variations of these verses) are known to exist, some including Christian references and some including more specific to farm life or labor union issues to be used as a rallying-song for farm-laborers. 
Spanish Version:
<poem style="font-style:italic;">     De colores, de colores
Se visten los campos en la primavera.
Son los pajaritos que vienen de afuera.
Es el arco iris que vemos lucir.

De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.

Brillantes y finos se viste la aurora.
Son los mil reflejos que el sol atesora.
Se viste el diamante que vemos lucir.

De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.

Con el quiri, quiri, quiri, quiri, quiri.
Con el cara, cara, cara, cara, cara.
Con el pío, pío, pío, pío, pí.

De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.

Vivamos en gracia puesto que se puede.
La sed ardorosa del Rey que no muere.
Llevemos a Cristo un alma y mil más.

La gracia divina del gran ideal.
La gracia divina del gran ideal.

Sí, de blanco y negro y rojo y azul y castaño.
De gente que ríe, y estrecha la mano.
De gente que sabe de la libertad.

De muchos colores me gustan a mí.
De muchos colores me gustan a mí.</poem>

English Version 
<poem style="font-style:italic;">     In colors, in colors
The fields are dressed in the spring.
Are the little birds that come from outside.
Is the rainbow that we see shining.

The great loves of many colors
The great loves of many colors.

Brilliant and delicate is dressed the dawn.
Are the thousand gleams the sun treasures.
Is dressed the diamond we see shining.

The great loves of many colors.
The great loves of many colors.

The rooster sings, the rooster sings
With a cock-a-doodle, cock-a-doodle-doo.
With a cluck, cluck, cluck, cluck, cluck.
With a cheep, cheep, cheep, cheep, cheep.

The great loves of many colors.
The great loves of many colors.

Let us live in grace since we can.
The burning thirst of the King who does not die.
Let us bring to Christ a soul and thousand more.

The divine grace from the great ideal.
The divine grace from the great ideal.

Yes, black and white and red and blue and brown.
From people laughing, and shaking hands.
From people who know freedom.

The great loves of many colors
The great loves of many colors.</poem>

Shirley Manson

Shirley Ann Manson (born 26 August 1966) is a Scottish singer, songwriter, musician and actress. She was born in Edinburgh. She is best known for being the main singer of the rock band Garbage. They have released 7 albums. 

Between 1992 and 1994 Manson was a member of a rock band called Angelfish. In 1994 Manson joined Garbage. They released their first album, "Garbage", the next year. The first single released from the album was "Vow". The single "Stupid Girl" reached number four in the UK. It was their best selling single in the United States. In 1998 Garbage's second album "Version 2.0" was released. It was number one in the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, and New Zealand. Six singles were released from the album. "Beautifulgarbage" was released in 2001. In 2005 "Bleed Like Me" was released. "Not Your Kind of People", Garbage's fifth album, was released in 2013. And two next albums : Strange Little Birds (2016). No Gods No Masters (2021).

In 2013 Manson made a cover of "Because the Night" with Screaming Females.

Manson acted in eighteen episodes of "".

She is a feminist. 
Her first relationship was with her music teacher when she was fifteen years old. She married Billy Bush in 2010.


Subantarctic

The Subantarctic is a region in the southern hemisphere that is just north of the Antarctic region. This covers the part of the world roughly to a latitude of between 46° – 60° south of the Equator. The subantarctic region includes many islands in the southern parts of the Indian Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Pacific Ocean.

Nils Petter Molvær

Nils Petter Molvær (born September 18, 1960) is a Norwegian jazz trumpeter. He plays a kind of jazz called future jazz. He has won Spellemannprisen in the Open Class three times. In 1983 he joined Jazzpunkensemblet, a Norwegian jazz orchestra. He released his first solo album "Khmer" in 1998 in the United States on ECM Records. It has sold more copies than any of his later albums. Molvær played trumpet on the 2008 Hector Zazou album "Corps Electriques". Molvær was a member of a post-rock band called Jaga Jazzist.


Prince Edward Islands

The Prince Edward Islands are two islands in the subantarctic Indian Ocean. They are part of South Africa. The two islands are called Marion Island and Prince Edward Island. The only people on the islands are meteorologists and biologists.Now they are allowing more people to live there.

The islands were discovered in 1769 by a Dutch explorer. Different people visited the islands over the years but no one settled there. The British claimed the islands in 1908, then gave the islands to South Africa in 1948.

River Tyne

The River Tyne is a river in North East England. It is used for water sports in the summer. More than 43,500 people visit it every year. There is a famous bridge that crosses it called the Tyne Bridge. Another bridge that crosses it is the Gateshead Millennium Bridge. The bridges connect Gateshead to Newcastle upon Tyne.


Frobisher Bay

Frobisher Bay is an inlet of the Davis Strait in Nunavut, Canada. It is in the southeastern corner of Baffin Island. The capital of Nunavut, Iqaluit, is near the bay. Frobisher Bay is 230 kilometers (140 miles) long and is 40 kilometers (25 miles) wide at its widest point. There are many small islands in the bay.

The bay was discovered in 1576 by Martin Frobisher, an English navigator who was looking for the Northwest Passage.

Vitamin String Quartet

The Vitamin String Quartet is a music group from Los Angeles. The group is known widely for tribute and cover records of rock, pop or R&B acts. The group started in 1999. They have covered songs of Lady Gaga, Natasha Bedingfield, Adele and many others. Other musicians covered by the Vitamin String Quartet include Bruce Springsteen and Madonna.

Midnight Memories

Midnight Memories is the third album by the British-Irish boy band One Direction. The album was made released or made public on 25 November 2013. It is their the third album after "Up All Night" and "Take Me Home".


Peter Dinklage

Peter Hayden Dinklage (born June 11, 1969) is an American actor who starred in the Home Box Office television series "Game of Thrones". He also starred in other movies, including "Elf" (2003), "Penelope" (2006), "Death at a Funeral" (2010), and "" (2012). Dinklage was born in Morristown, New Jersey. He was born with achondroplasia, a form of dwarfism. He studied at Bennington College. In 2005, he married Erica Schmidt. They have one daughter. He is a Catholic. He is a vegetarian and a supporter of animal rights.


Elf (movie)

Elf is an American 2003 Christmas comedy movie, directed by Jon Favreau.

It stars Will Ferrell, James Caan, Bob Newhart, Zooey Deschanel, and Ed Asner with Leon Redbone. Ferrell plays a human named Buddy who is raised by elves in the North Pole. He lives the way the elves do and helps in Santa's workshop. He travels to New York City to find his father. He is used to how elves live, which is very different from how humans live, with New York being a perfectly opposite way of living compared to the North Pole.

The movie was released to positive reviews on November 7, 2003 by Warner Bros. The film inspired the 2010 Broadway musical "" and NBC's 2014 stop-motion animated television special "".

Bellis perennis

Bellis perennis is a very common European species of daisy, of the Asteraceae family, often considered the model type for the name "daisy".

Many related plants also share the name "daisy", so to distinguish this species from other daisies it is sometimes qualified as common daisy, lawn daisy or English daisy. The plant resembles "Leucanthemum vulgare", a similar plant in the same family. "Bellis perennis" is native to western, central and northern Europe, but widely naturalised in most temperate regions including the Americas, and Australasia.

Linnaeus named the plant species "Bellis perennis" in Sp. Pl. 2: 886. 1753

It is an low herbaceous perennial plant with short rhizomes and of small rounded or spoon-shaped leaves that are long and grow flat to the ground.

The flower heads are in diameter. Although the 'flower' may appear to consist of a yellow centre with white petals, this is not the case. Each individual "petal" is itself an individual flower; these flowers are called ray flowers. In the centre (the "disk") there are also many tiny yellow flowers; these are called the disk flowers. The different colours and styles of flower work together in order to attract insects. The flower heads are produced on stems without leaves that are tall.

"Bellis perennis" is native to Northern Africa (Morocco), Southwestern Asia, and Europe; widely introduced and naturalised elsewhere.

The species habitually colonises grasslands, including lawns, and is difficult to eradicate. Wherever it appears it is often considered an invasive weed.

This daisy may be used as a leaf vegetable. Young leaves can be eaten raw in salads or cooked, noting that the leaves become increasingly astringent with age. Flower buds and petals can be eaten raw in sandwiches, soups and salads. It is also used as a tea and as a vitamin supplement.


Wu Chinese

Wu is a group of Chinese dialects spoken in the area around Shanghai in southern China. 
Wu dialects have been spoken by some important people such as Chiang Kai-shek. However, Wu speakers are similar to speakers of Spanish and French because they can not always understand each other. In fact, the name Wu is mainly used by people who study languages.

There are various subgroups of the Wu dialect.

Like other types of Chinese, the Wu dialects are starting to be replaced by Mandarin as time goes on.

Military aircraft

A Military aircraft is an aeroplane made for military purposes. There are two basic types:


Astraphobia

Astraphobia, also called astrapophobia, brontophobia, keraunophobia, or tonitrophobia, is a fear of thunder and lightning. It is a type of specific phobia. Both humans and animals can have this type of phobia.

A person with astraphobia often feels fear during a thunderstorm even if there is a low chance that they will be hurt during the storm. They will sometimes look for better shelter during the storm. They might hide under a bed, under blankets, in a closet, in a basement, or anywhere else where they feel safe. A sign that a person has astraphobia is if they are very interested in weather forecasts. A person with astraphobia will want to hear news of storms that are coming by watching the weather on television or watching the storms on the internet.

Up All Night

Up All Night is the debut or first album from the British-Irish boy band One Direction. It was made available to fans and the public on 18 November 2011.

Zenobia

Zenobia (240 – c. 275 ) was a queen who ruled in the 3rd century over the Palmyrene Empire in what is today Syria. She led a famous revolt against the Roman Empire. She was the second wife of King Septimius Odaenathus. Zenobia became queen of Palmyra after Odaenathus' death in 267. By 269, Zenobia had expanded the empire, taking over Egypt from the Romans. Tenagino Probus, the Roman governor, committed suicide after his failed attempt to recapture the territory. In 272 Zenobia declared herself Empress. She ruled over Egypt until 274, when she was defeated and taken as a hostage to Rome by Emperor Aurelian.

Zenobia was Semitic. Many people think she was either Arab, Jewish or Aramean. She gave her son an Arabic name but her family spoke the Aramaic language, the language of the Arameans. She is known by other names, such as ' () in Arabic sources, "Zenobius" in Latin sources and ' () in Aramaic sources.

Whitehouse.gov

www.whitehouse.gov (also simply known as whitehouse.gov) is the official website of the White House. The website is owned and run by the federal government of the United States.

The content of the White House website is designed to be an open portfolio for the public to know the current operations of the president during his presidency. 

The website contains information about the president, the vice president, the first lady, the spouse of the vice president and press releases, and a transcript of speeches by White House staff officials. 

The website also offers information about getting Involved with the White House. This includes directions on how to write or call the White House, learn about the White House Internship Program and White House Fellows program.

This is a table of the current administration officeholders.

Carlos Ghosn

Carlos Ghosn (; ; , born 9 March 1954) is a French-Lebanese-Brazilian businessman and fugitive from the justice system of Japan.

He is an internationally wanted criminal. He was the Chairman and chief executive officer of Renault, which is based in Paris. He held the same positions at Nissan, based in Japan. Together, these companies produce more than 10% of cars sold around the world. Ghosn was also Chairman and CEO of the Renault-Nissan Alliance, the strategic partnership overseeing the two companies through a unique cross-shareholding agreement.

He was born in Brazil.

On January 2, 2020, Interpol issued a red notice to Lebanon seeking Ghosn's arrest.

Manal al-Sharif

Manal al-Sharif is a Saudi Arabian activist for women's rights in the kingdom. She helped start a women's right to drive campaign in 2011. A women's rights activist who had previously filmed herself driving, Wajeha al-Huwaider, filmed al-Sharif driving a car as part of the campaign. The video was posted on YouTube and Facebook.

Women are not allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia. Al-Sharif was arrested and released on 21 May and then rearrested the next day. On 30 May, al-Sharif was released on bail, on the conditions of returning for questioning if asked, not driving and not talking to the media. "The New York Times" and Associated Press reported the women's driving campaign as part of the Arab Spring. They reported the length of al-Sharif's detention with the Saudi government's fear of protests.

Following her driving campaign, al-Sharif remained an active critic of the Saudi government. She posted things on Twitter (known as tweeting) about imprisoned female foreign workers, the lack of elections for the Shura Council, and the murder of Lama al-Ghamdi. Her work has been praised by "Foreign Policy", "Time", and the Oslo Freedom Forum.

Kate Bornstein

Katherine Vandam "Kate" Bornstein (born March 15, 1948) is an American writer. She lives in New York City with her partner Barbara Carrellas. In 2012 she made a video for Dan Savage's It Gets Better Project. In August 2012 she was diagnosed with lung cancer.

Bornstein was born in New Jersey to a Jewish family.

In 1970 Bornstein joined the Church of Scientology. She left in 1981.

Bornstein does not feel male or female. She was born male. In 1986 she had sex reassignment surgery. She has written books about gender. The most well-known one is "Gender Outlaw".

In 2013 a documentary about Bornstein called "Kate Bornstein is a Queer & Pleasant Danger" was made.

Disconnecting switch

A disconnecting switch (or disconnector) is an electrical switch used in high-voltage electrical circuits to isolate the section which has electricity from the section with no electricity. This is done for a full safety method during electrical equipment maintenance or service. They are primarily used for the isolation of various substation equipment, including circuit breakers, power transformers, capacitor banks, and reactors.


House of Farnese

The House of Farnese was a noble family from Italy. They owned fine art collections within their many palaces throughout Rome. Two of their members became Popes. The famous Elisabetta Farnese was a member of the family and she had great political influence over her husband, Philip V of Spain. The family were also the rulers of the small Italian Duchy of Parma. The family's art collection was only rivalled by that of the Medici.

Electrostatic precipitator

An electrostatic precipitator (ESP) is a device to capture particles from a flowing gas. It uses the force produced by electrostatic charge. ESPs are used in many power plants which burn fuel to produce energy, such as in power stations. Any gas produced by fuel burning will pollute the air much less after being passed through an ESP.

Voltage spike

A voltage spike is a sudden increase in voltage value over a short time in power systems. It can be caused by several factors, but mostly it is due to external or internal disturbance. A voltage spike might cause an increase in current, but the increase in voltage might have been caused by the current increase as well.

Transmission tower

A transmission tower or pylon (also known as an ironman in Australia and a hydro tower in parts of Canada) is a tall tower used for electric power transmission. It carries the electrical conductors (wires) of high-voltage overhead power lines. The tower is high for a safe distance for people, animals or things below the wires.

Most big transmission towers are lattice steel structures. Smaller ones may be wood, concrete or steel poles. 

Most transmission towers are built as suspension towers. They only hold up the wires, not pull them. Their insulators are used vertically.

Tension towers (also known as anchor towers) pull on the wires. Their insulators are used horizontally. They work as terminal towers at the end of a power line. They work as branch towers where power lines split and run in different directions. 

Transposition towers are relatively rare. They allow the wires to change their position on the tower.


Donald Watson

Donald Watson (2 September 1910 – 16 November 2005) was an English woodwork teacher who made the word 'vegan'. He started the Vegan Society in 1944. 

In 1924, Watson saw a pig being killed on his uncle's farm. After this he became a vegetarian. He was fourteen years old. When Watson was fifteen he left school to be an apprentice woodworker. Watson was born in Mexborough, Yorkshire.

Overburden

Overburden is the material that sits on top of an area where miners or archaeologists want to dig. In mining, it is usually the soil or rock that sits on top of a coal or ore deposit. The soil needs to be removed to get to the minerals or objects below.

Coal preparation plant

A coal preparation plant (or coal handling plant) is a place where coal is prepared for use after it has been mined. The coal is washed and resized here, before it is transported to be sold, loaded on coal transport or used locally. It is then transported to coal-fired power plants, for example.

Boiler feedwater pump

A boiler feedwater pump is a pump that supplies water to a boiler. The water can be supplied freshly from a water source (such as a reservoir) or from water that has gone through the condensation process from the previous water cycle. The pump is a high-pressure pump, and it can be found in any plant that uses boiler, such as thermal power stations.

Three-phase electric power

Three-phase electric power is a method to generate, transmit and distribute AC electricity. It is the most common method in power systems to transfer power from generation to load. Three-phase systems are usually more economical to be used than equivalent single-phase or double-phase systems.

Power factor

In electricity, the power factor (PF or cosφ) is the ratio between the power that can be used in electric circuit (real power, P) and the power from the result of multiplication between the current and voltage circuit (apparent power, S). The power factor is defined as:

PF ranges from zero to one. The higher the PF, the more efficient the circuit is because more power can be used, and vice versa. Factors that can cause PF to be less than one is non-linear load, which are capacitive load and inductive load.

Laverne Cox

Laverne Cox (born May 29, 1972) is an American actress and LGBT advocate. She is best known for playing Sophia Burset in "Orange Is the New Black", a Netflix series. Burset is a transgender woman in a women's prison.

Laverne Cox was born in Mobile, Alabama and was raised by a single mother and grandmother within the AME Zion church. She has an identical twin brother, M Lamar, who portrays the pre-transitioning Sophia (as Marcus) in "Orange Is the New Black". Cox stated she attempted suicide at the age of 11, when she noticed that she had developed feelings about her male classmates and had been bullied for several years for not acting "the way someone assigned male at birth was supposed to act".

Cox is making a documentary about CeCe McDonald, an African American transgender woman who was put in prison for killing a man who attacked her. On January 13 2014 Cox met CeCe to drive her home after she was released from prison. Cox spoke at the start of the 2014 National Gay and Lesbian Task Force conference Creating Change. Cox was chosen as one of the 2014 grand marshalls for the New York City Pride March.



Transit bus

Transit buses (also city buses, town buses or public buses) are public transport vehicles that transport people for short and medium distances, especially within the same city. Public transit buses often use large or multiple exit and entry doors to make boarding and exiting easier, and have minimal to moderate luggage spaces (or none at all), and air conditioner/heating for passengers and drivers.

Pull chains or cords are also used on public buses. Fares are usually paid with cash, tickets or certain credit/debit cards. Many people prefer using public buses, instead of driving their own automobile for many reasons (such as not able or willing to drive).

Terry Funk

Terrence Dee "Terry" Funk (June 30, 1944 – August 23, 2023) was an American professional wrestler and actor.

He was best known for working with National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), American Wrestling Association (AWA), World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), Ring of Honor (ROH) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He was the first and only person to have been inducted into the WWE, WCW, Professional Wrestling, NWA, Hardcore, Wrestling Observer, and St. Louis Wrestling Halls of Fame.

He had numerous "retirement matches" and was one of the primary subjects in the documentary movie "Beyond the Mat". 

In June 2021, it was reported that Funk was diagnosed as living with dementia and was living in an assisted living facility.

Funk died on August 23, 2023, at the age of 79.

























Leonid Gaidai

Leonid Gaidai (30 January 1923 – 19 November 1993), was a Soviet comedy movie director. He was born in Svobodny, Amur Oblast.

Maria Bello

Maria Elena Bello (born April 18, 1967) is an American actress and singer. She has acted in the movies "Permanent Midnight" (1998), "Payback" (1999), "Coyote Ugly" (2000), "The Cooler" (2003), "A History of Violence" (2005), "Thank You for Smoking" (2006), and "The Jane Austen Book Club" (2007). In television, she acted in the medical drama "ER" from 1997 to 1998. She stars in "NCIS". She also acted in "Touch" in 2013.

She was born in Pennsylvania. In November 2013, Bello wrote about having a same-sex relationship with her partner Clare Munn.


Paiçandu

Paiçandu is a city in the state of Paraná in the south of Brazil. Paiçandu was founded in 1948.

During 1938 and 1940 the area of ​​land where is the County Paiçandu was inhabited by Native Americans and caboclos. There was a small cemetery that was the point of reference in the dense virgin forest, where were buried those who died at that time.
In the period 1942–1944, the first explorers of Minas Gerais and São Paulo were attracted by the fertility of the land. It was suitable for growing coffee. At the time the land was cleared, coffee was the largest source of wealth in the region. Facing all sorts of difficulties, farmers built their small farms and formed their crops.

The prospects for progress attract residents from different parts of the country. Trade prospered dramatically with the installation of warehouses and general merchandise. The good quality land started the first agricultural productions, especially the coffee culture.

Its name is a honor to the Brazilian Army. In the Uruguayan War, the army conquered the Uruguayan city of Paysandú.



Susan Stryker

Susan O'Neal Stryker (born 1961) is an American professor and activist. She is a lesbian transgender woman. Her first book, "Gay by the Bay: A History of Queer Culture in the San Francisco Bay Area", was published in 1996 by Chronicle Books. Stryker wrote the book with Jim Van Buskirk. It was nominated for a Lambda Literary Award.

She edited the 2003 essay collection "The Transgender Studies Reader". In 2005 "Screaming Queens: The Riot at Compton's Cafeteria" was released. Stryker got an Emmy Award for it. In 2008 Seal Press published Stryker's book "Transgender History". She wrote the 2013 documentary "Masculinity/Femininity". The Association for Queer Anthropology gave Stryker the 2013 Ruth Benedict Prize.

Gossip (band)

Gossip is an American indie rock band. They started in 1999 in Olympia, Washington as The Gossip. The main singer is Beth Ditto. Brace Paine is the guitarist and Hannah Blilie is the drummer. The band became popular with their third album "Standing in the Way of Control" (2006). Three singles were released from the album. The first single, "Standing in the Way of Control", reached number seven in the UK Singles Chart. Gossip's fourth album "Music for Men" was released in 2009 by Columbia Records. Their 2009 single "Heavy Cross" reached number two in Germany's chart.


House of Gonzaga

The House of Gonzaga were a noble family that ruled Mantua in Northern Italy from 1328 to 1708. They also ruled Monferrato in Piedmont, Nevers in France, and also many other lesser fiefs in Italy and Europe. Among their members was a saint, twelve cardinals and fourteen bishops of the Catholic Church.

Longship

Longships were vessels made and used for trade, exploring, and raiding. They are usually thought of as Viking ships but were used by early people on the Baltic Sea and the North Sea. It was the Vikings who mastered the design of light fast longships that could also go up rivers. At the beginning of the Anglo-Saxon period in Britain, the invading groups of Angles, Saxons, Frisians and Jutes arrived in longships. From that time on longships were also being built and used in the British Isles. When the Normans conquered England in 1066, William the Conqueror used a large fleet of longships to transport his army to England. 

The earliest discovered longship built from traces back to BC. The ship was recovered from the Hjortspring bog in southern Denmark. Called the Hjortspring boat it was made of planks of wood sewn together with cord. The spaces between planks were filled with resin. The ship was about 59 feet (18 meters) long and was a very light and flexible design. It had a double bow and stern that looked like a bird's beak. The ship had places for 20 men to row and had a steering oar at both ends. A replica of this design was built and tested. It was very , fast and . In calm waters it averaged 6 knots (about 7 miles per hour) in speed. 
The next design was of construction (also called ). In this design overlapping boards are held together with nails. Named the Nydam ship for being found in the Nydam bog in 1863 in south Jutland. It measured 77 feet (23.5 meters) long, a little over 11 feet (3.5 meters) wide and was about 4 feet (1.2 meters) deep. This ship was sunk (and filled with weapons) between 350–400 AD. Unlike the Hjortspring boat, the planks are held together with nails (the tips being bent over). It did not have a mast, as later designs would, it had places for 30 men to row. It also did not have a . This kind of shallow open ship could cross open sea but could be swamped (filled with water) and sink. This was a classic Northern design that in different forms could range as far as Constantinople or Newfoundland.

The Viking designed longship could cross an ocean or could row up a shallow river. Over time the design changed. There were many different types of longships built for different purposes. The smallest ships were the "Faering" (four oars) and "Sexaeringer" (six oars) used around the fjords to move people and for fishing. 

Longships of from 12 to 32 oars were called "Karvi". The Gokstad Ship is a famous ship of the Karvi type. The Gokstad ship was excavated in 1880. Its mast was cut off but otherwise the ship was well preserved. It was 76 feet (23 meters) long and 17½ (5.3 meters) wide. The Gokstad ship had a keel and was made of oak. Its rudder was about 11 feet (3.3 meters) long; big enough to steer the ship in any weather. The mast stood about 40 feet (12 meters) tall.

A replica of the Gokstad ship sailed across the Atlantic ocean in 1893.

A specialized type of ship with at least 20 rowing benches was called a "snekkja", meaning 'thin and projecting.' It was a warship known to be used by both Swedish Vikings and Wends. It could carry 44 men and 2 horses. Snekkjas were one of the most common types of warship. Duke Ratibor of the Wends had 660 of this type of ship he used when he attacked Kongälf in 1135.

Skeid (skeið), meaning 'that which cuts through water,' ships were larger warships. Skeids usually had more than 30 rowing benches. These were the largest longships ever discovered. They had armour over the oar ports (openings for the oars) protecting the men rowing. King Aethelred of England ordered this type of ship to be made throughout England. Every district of 310 hides was to provide one such ship.

The largest warships of the era were of the Drakaar (dragon) type. King Olaf I of Norway had a famous longship of this design called "Long Serpent". King Olaf II of Norway had a longship named "Visunden" (the Ox). It had an Ox head carved in the . Matilda of Flanders had a ship built for her husband William the Conqueror of the Drakkar design. It was named the "Mora" and was built at Barfleur in Normandy in the summer of 1066. This type could operate in shallow water and was easy to beach.

Many of this type of ship were called "Knarrs". From the 9th century larger sailing ships were used for overseas trading. Many were specialized cargo ships. They were marked by having a small crew, few oars, and depended on sails for power. They had a large load capacity for a variety of cargo. An example would be the Klåstad ship. It was built in the last years of the 10th century. The ship was wrecked near Kaupang in Norway. It had a capacity of about 13 tons and a length of 69 feet (21 meters).

Another form of cargo ship was the horse transports used by William the Conqueror in 1066. In the "ship list" it gives a total of 776 vessels in the Conqueror's fleet. Many were for the knights and soldiers but others were used to haul the supplies and horses they needed. Earlier Vikings did not use horse transports and usually used the horses they found in the places they invaded. The Normans, however, used cavalry and needed to transport their war horses and palfreys. But the Normans in Sicily had used horse transports (1060–61) before possibly based on Byzantine ships of a similar design. The Byzantines had ships called "hippagogoi" designed to land horses which could go right into battle. Guy of Amiens observed that William's invasion force included men from Apulia, Calabria, and Sicily. William had familiar with building horse transports at his disposal. How many he built is unknown, but he did have such ships in his fleet.


Sabu (wrestler)

Terry Michael Brunk (born December 12, 1964) is an American professional wrestler.

He is best known for working with Extreme Championship Wrestling, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, and World Wrestling Entertainment's ECW brand under the ring name Sabu. He is known for competing in hardcore-type matches. He was trained by his uncle, Ed Farhat who was known by his ring name, The Sheik.



Hill House School

Hill House School is a preparatory school in Knightsbridge, London, England. It was started in 1951 by Lt. Col. Stuart Townend. It is for boys and girls aged 4 to 11. The school only allowed male students until 1981.


Competitive advantage

In economics a competitive advantage is something that allows someone or a company to beat their rivals. This includes:



Comparative advantage

Comparative advantage is a term economists use, especially in international trade. A country has a comparative advantage when it can make goods or services at a lower opportunity cost than another country.

For example, during the Industrial Revolution, England and Portugal both made wine and cloth.

Suppose the number shows the number of hours required to create one piece of cloth or one crate of wine. In 100 hours, England can either make 1 unit of cloth or 5/6 units of wine. Meanwhile in 90 hours Portugal can make 1 unit of cloth or 9/8 units of wine. Portugal has an absolute advantage in both. However England's opportunity cost of 5/6 is lower than Portugal's OC 9/8. Hence England has a comparative advantage in cloth-making.

David Ricardo predicted that Portugal would stop making cloths and England would stop making wine. That did happen.

Theory predicts that even if one country can produce all good more efficiently than another, trade will make both better off if they specialize in the goods they have a comparative advantage in.

This theory also says that protectionism (raising tariffs or blocking trade from other countries) does not work in the long run.



Hikikomori

Hikikomori is a Japanese word that describes people who withdraw from society and spend extreme amounts of time on their own house. The withdrawal usually happens slowly. Tamaki Saitō was the first person to use the word. In 1998 his book "Shakaiteki hikikomori--Owaranai Shishunki" was published. An English translation by Jeffrey Angles, "Hikikomori: Adolescence without End", was published in 2013. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare defines hikikomori as people who refuse to leave their house for over six months. In 2010 there were 700,000 hikikomori. The average hikikomori was 31 years old. Tamaki Saitō thinks that there may be over 1 million hikikomori (1% of the Japanese population).

People who withdrew from society during school refusal is often referred to as "futōkō" (不登校).

English words with similar meanings include recluse and agoraphobic.

Heinrich Boere

Heinrich Boere (27 September 1921 – 1 December 2013) was a convicted German-Dutch war criminal and former member of the Waffen-SS. He was one of the most wanted Nazis during the 1940s.

Boere was born in Eschweiler, Germany to a Dutch father and German mother.

Boere began serving his life sentence on 16 December 2011 at the age of 90. He died on 1 December 2013 in prison custody in Fröndenberg from natural causes, aged 92.


Donald Malarkey

Donald G. Malarkey (July 31, 1921 – September 30, 2017) was a former non-commissioned officer during World War II. Malarkey was portrayed in the HBO miniseries "Band of Brothers" by Scott Grimes. 

Malarkey was born in Astoria, Oregon on July 31, 1921.


Tony Musante

Anthony Peter "Tony" Musante (June 30, 1936 – November 26, 2013) was an American actor. He was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut into an Italian-American family. He was known for his role as David Toma in the 1970s television series "Toma" and as Joe D'Angelo in "As the World Turns".

He died of complications following surgery on November 26, 2013, aged 77, in Manhattan, New York City.


Lewis Collins

Lewis Collins (26 May 1946 – 27 November 2013) was an English actor. He was best known for his tough-guy role as Bodie in the ITV drama series "The Professionals". It ran from 1977 to 1983.

Collins died from cancer in Los Angeles, California on 27 November 2013, aged 67.


Edward Heffron

Edward James Heffron (May 16, 1923 - December 1, 2013) was a former American World War II-veteran. Heffron was played in the HBO miniseries "Band of Brothers" by Robin Laing. He wrote some books about his view of the war. 

Heffron was born in South Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on May 16, 1923. He died on December 1, 2013 from natural causes in his home in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, aged 90. 


Alice Herz-Sommer

Alice Herz-Sommer, also known as Alice Sommer (26 November 1903 – 23 February 2014), was a Czech-British music teacher and supercentenarian from Bohemia. She was a survivor of the Theresienstadt concentration camp and was the world's oldest known Holocaust survivor until Yisrael Kristal was recognized as such.

Herz was born in Prague, Austria-Hungary on 26 November 1903, along with her twin sister Mariana. She married the businessman and amateur musician Leopold Sommer in 1931. They had one son, Raphael Sommer. Leopold Sommer was later sent to Auschwitz. Although he survived the camp, he died at Dachau in 1944.

She lived in Israel and worked as a music teacher in Jerusalem. She then moved to Belsiza Park in London in 1986. Raphael Sommer, her only child, was a cellist and conductor. He died in 2001.

Herz-Sommer died on the morning of 23 February 2014 in London, England, from natural causes, aged 110.


Mister Donut

Mister Donut is a worldwide food franchise which sells pastries, soda, coffee, muffins and doughnuts. The company was established in the United States in 1956, though it is now based from Japan. The company was acquired in 1990, following which every North American outlet was renamed Dunkin' Donuts except for fewer than six by the start of 2010. Only one Illinois location continues using the "Mister Donut" corporate name.

Acid Black Cherry

Acid Black Cherry is the solo project of Japanese musician, Yasu. He started the project in 2007. It was after his previous band, Janne Da Arc, announced that they were taking a break. Acid Black Cherry is often called ABC.

Olive Garden

The Olive Garden is an American casual dining restaurant. It serves Italian-American cuisine. The Olive Garden was established in December 1982 in Orlando, Florida. There are over 800 locations worldwide.

Soup, salad, and breadsticks: The absolute bane of every OG server's existence. I worked at various Olive Gardens over 10 years, in every position, and I still have lunch rush nightmares where all three of my tables — that’s the max you were supposed to have, and with all the refills, it could really put you in the weeds — tell me they are going to 'make it easy for me' and have soup, salad, and breadsticks. At the time it cost $7.25. People would give you $10 and tell you to 'keep the change,' which is a good tip percentage-wise, but the amount of stress and running was not worth it.

Ipovlopsychophobia

Ipovlopsychophobia is a fear of having one's own photograph taken. It is a type of specific phobia.

Camera shyness

Camera shyness is when a person doesn't want a photograph taken of them. Many people who are camera shy do not like to speak in public or perform in front of other people.

A fear of having one's own picture taken is called ipovlopsychophobia.


Availability factor

Availability factor in a power plant is the amount of time that it is able to produce electricity over a certain period, divided by the amount of the time in the period. The availability factor depends on the type of power plant, the source of energy used and how the plant is operated. Newer types of power plants usually have higher availability factors than old power plants.

Base load power plant

A base load power plant is a power station that usually provides a continuous supply of electricity throughout the year with some minimum power generation requirement. Base load power plants will only be turned off during periodic maintenance, upgrading, overhaul or service. Base load power plant has the character of slow demand respond, a mechanism to match generation with the load it supplies.

Examples of base load power plants are coal-fired power plant, geothermal power plant, tidal power plant, nuclear power plant, etc.


Peaking power plant

A peaking power plant (or peaker) is a power station that only runs during peak hours of demand of electricity. Because of that, the price of electricity it generates is generally higher than the electricity generated by base load power plant, which operates continuously throughout the year. Peak hours may include hot afternoons when air conditioners are working.

Examples of peaking power plants are a hydropower plant, pumped-storage hydro power plant, and gas-fired power plant. Nuclear and solar power are not used in this way.


Analytical psychology

Analytical psychology is the school of psychology that came from the ideas of Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung. Analytical psychology has two main parts: 



Load following power plant

A load following power plant is a power plant that can adjust the amount of electricity it generates to match the changing demand throughout the day. Load following power plants are usually in between base load power plant and peaking power plant in terms of construction cost, cost of the electricity it generates, efficiency, and capacity.

Hydroelectric power plant can be considered load following power plant.

Cable tray

A cable tray is a system to put insulated cables and other wiring (communication, network etc.) in building structures, such as in office buildings, residential, industries etc. A cable tray system gives easy access. This is useful when adding new cables or replacing the old cables on the tray.

Cable trays can be made out of galvanized steel, stainless steel, aluminum or plastic. The choice depends on how it will be used or where it will be placed.

Brownout (electricity)

A brownout is a drop of voltage in an electrical power supply. Brownouts may be done intentionally in order to reduce the load during an emergency. This is done to prevent a total supply failure ("blackout"). Brownouts can also be caused accidentally by faults in the electrical grid which cause a drop in voltage.

Adams County, Indiana

Adams County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Decatur.



Independent Power Producer

An Independent Power Producer (IPP) or Non-Utility Generator (NUG) is an organisation that owns a power-producing facility and can sell electricity to utility companies and electricity users. An IPP is usually a private company and is generally not a public utility company. Transaction of electricity between IPP with its customers are usually regulated under the power purchase agreement.

An independent water and power producer (IWPP) is similar to an IPP, but with a unified process to also output usable treated water.

Allen County, Indiana

Allen County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Fort Wayne.



Bartholomew County, Indiana

Bartholomew County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Columbus.



Anna Komnene

Anna Komnene (sometimes spelled Comnena; Greek: Άννα Κομνηνή, "Anna Komnēnē") was a Greek princess, scholar, and doctor. She was the eldest daughter of Emperor Alexios I Komnenos of Byzantium and Irene Doukaina. 

Komnene was born in the Porphyra, the purple room of the Byzantine royal palace in Constantinople, on December 2nd, 1083. For some time, the emperor did not have a son, so Komnene who was originally engaged to Constantine Ducas, became an heir to the throne. While they were engaged, Anna went to live with Ducas’s mother, Maria of Alania, where Komnena got an education in mathematics, philosophy, and medicine. Anna’s future changed significantly when her brother John was born in 1087 and became the heir to the throne. This sparked Komnene’s jealousy and hatred for her brother for the rest of her life. Unfortunately, Constantine Ducas died young and Anna married Nicephorus Bryennius in 1097 AD. 
Anna began to plot a plan for her husband to inherit the throne, with the help of her grandmother, Anna Dalassene. Anna’s mother, Irene, also helped Anna try to persuade her father while on his death bed, to give Brynnius the throne. The plan failed, mainly because of Nicephorus’s loyalty to the heir of the throne, John. At her father’s funeral, Anne is thought by many historians to have attempted an assassination of John, before he could claim the throne, but failed yet again. 
John II Komnenos took the throne in 1188. Anna is supposed to have continued plotting against her brother, even though her husband refused to help her. Once her antics were discovered, Anna’s lands were taken, and she was prohibited from entering the royal palace ever again. When Bryennius, her husband, died, Anna moved into a convent and began her work as a historian. 
While she lived there, Anna wrote her book, "The Alexiad". “The Alexiad” is a lengthy biography of her father’s reign and the Byzantine Empire. It provides a picture of religious and intellectual activities within the empire. Anna writes about the faults and flaws in her father’s reign as well as the successes and accomplishments. The 15 books of "The Alexiad" are written solely in Greek. Anne is the only female historian who wrote in Greek before the 19th century. She is also one of very few female authors and historians from Byzantium and was viewed as lesser by many. Her book is still important because Anna had access to the royal archives and had an inside view of politics. Her book remains one of the essential primary sources for Byzantine history and is a common read for those studying the time period. 
Anna may have spent a large part of her life in a convent, but she did in fact become a nun until shortly before she died. She is thought to have died in 1153 however the exact date is unknown. 

Eleazar of Worms

Eleazar of Worms (; c. 1176 – 1238), or Eleazar ben Judah ben Kalonymus, was a Jewish mystic. He was an important student of the Talmud. He was also the last major member of the Chassidei Ashkenaz, a group of German Jewish mystics.

Eleazar of Worms was born in Mainz. He traveled and studied at many centers of learning in Germany and northern France. He belonged to the Kalonymus family, which was one of the most important German-Jewish families at the time. His father, Judah B. Kalonymus, was one of the leading scholars of his generation. Eleazar learned from his father about Jewish law and theology.

Eleazar spent most of his life living in Worms. He was a Jewish pietist. Eleazar wrote many books and poems on praising God, and studied liturgical poetry, halakhah, theology, ethics and exegesis. Some of his works were printed but many have been lost. Eleazar witnessed and suffered the persecution of Jews. Eleazar's wife, two daughters were murdered, and he and his son were badly injured.

Xuanzang

Xuanzang (; ; about 602 – 664) was a Chinese Buddhist scholar, traveller and translator. He described the relations between China and India in the early Tang Dynasty.

Xuanzang was born in what is now Henan province in 602. He was the youngest of four sons. One of his older brothers, Changjie, was a Buddhist monk. Changjie was impressed by Xuanzang's scholarly nature and brought him to a monastery in Luoyang. He began the process to become a monk at the age of thirteen. He studied Mahayana Buddhism at the monastery. 

In 618, the Sui Dynasty fell. To escape the conflict, Xuanzang and his brother went to Chang'an, the new capital of the Tang Dynasty. He was not satisfied there so he travelled on to Chengdu in Sichuan. There, he joined the monastery and was made a monk at the age of 20. He returned Chang'an after a few years.

He later travelled all around China in search of sacred books of Buddhism. He wanted to learn from the roots of Buddhist practice. He became famous for his seventeen-year journey to India. His journey is recorded in the "Great Tang Records on the Western Regions". This in turn provided the inspiration for the novel "Journey to the West" written by Wu Cheng'en during the Ming Dynasty, around 900 years after Xuanzang's death.

Xuanzang traveled to Liang-chou, where he was a “guest lecturer”. The governor refused to let him go, but Xuanzang ignored the governor. He slipped out of town with the aid of two monks. Some guards told him about a detour he took that lead him to the Gobi Desert. Xuanzang made it to the town Hami and a Caravan. The king of Turfan wanted Xuanzang to be in his court. 

When he refused, the king sent him on his way with everything Xuanzang could possibly need. Xuanzang crossed the Tien Shan Mountains and descended to the Issyk-Kul lake in what is now the Republic of Kyrgyzstan. He traveled capital of Tashkent and the city of Samarkand and then through the Iron Gates to Bactria (modern Afghanistan). He visited the city of Balkh, where there were many famous relics of the Buddha. Xuanzang arrived in Bamian. He traveled down the Kabul River through the city of Peshawar to Taxila (now ruins near the Pakistani capital of Islamabad). Xuanzang then went to Srinigar, the capital of Kashmir.

He stayed in Srinigar and studied Buddhist texts with nine monks, each expert in a different field, until early 633. In eastern Punjab, Xuanzang and his party were assaulted by 50 bandits, and only escaped because Xuanzang was able to slip away to get help. He traveled on to the headwaters of the Ganges, the sacred river of India. Stopping at Kannauj, he stayed there for three months studying with a famous Buddhist master. Sailing down the Ganges to Kanpur, his boat was captured by pirates who wanted to sacrifice Xuanzang to their god. 

As he was preparing to die, the pirate boats were hit by a cyclone and destroyed, and they released him before even worse things happened. Xuanzang visited the sacred sites where the historical Buddha had lived in what had once been the Kingdom of Magadha. At the village of Kasia, he saw the place where the Buddha had entered Nirvana (a kind of heaven). At the great monastery of Nalanda, Xuanzang stayed for five years from 633 to 637 studying the sacred texts. Xuanzang continued down the Ganges to the port of Tamralipti. 

From there he sailed down the east coast of India and visited south India and Maharashtra. He returned north and stopped at Nalanda again and then spent some time nearby studying non-religious subjects, such as mathematics and geography, with a famous teacher. Xuanzang was sent to Gauhati, the capital of Assam, to convert the King to Buddhism. Back in Nalanda he took leave of the monks and headed back to his native country in 643. 

He crossed the Thar Desert to reach the Indus River. Crossing the Indus, he made it across safely on the back of an elephant into central Asia. Xuanzang faced many hazards, though. He survived blizzards and storms and the death of his elephant, who drowned while fleeing an attack of bandits.

Xuanzang reached Kashgar in what is now the westernmost part of China and Hetien, the capital of the Buddhist kingdom of Khotan. The King of Khotan came out to greet him, and he spent seven or eight months there lecturing on what he had learned during his pilgrimage. He finally arrived back in Sian in the spring of 645. Xuanzang arrived back in China with 150 Buddhist relics, six statues and more than 650 religious texts after a journey of 40,000 miles. The Emperor ordered him to write about his experiences. He had completed this book, Ta-T'ang Si-Yu-Ki (Memoirs on Western Countries) by the time he died in 649.

Sei Shōnagon

The Heian period of Japanese history lasted from 794 to 1185 CE. Sei Shōnagon lived and died during this time. Not a lot is known about her as a child. We only know about her personality by her writing, especially "The Pillow Book". This book contains a lot about her life at the imperial court and her feelings. It is a collection of lists, poetry, gossip and observations from her years in the court (things she saw and how she felt about them). "The Pillow Book" became very well-known during the Heian period. It revealed an interesting view on life at court.

The name "Pillow Book" came from an event where the empress was given a bundle of notebooks. The empress did not know what to use the notebooks for so Sei Shōnagon asked Empress Sadako if she could have them. Sei Shōnagon told the empress that she wanted to use them to make a pillow.

The book has about 320 entries. She also wrote lists in her diaries. There are about 164 lists. Some of the lists that were included in her diary were: "Depressing things" and "Things that arouse a fond memory of the past". Sei Shōnagon completed this book some time between 1000 and 1010 CE. Some people believe that a copy of Sei Shōnagon's book was given to Empress Sadako's daughter.


Tomoe Gozen

When Tomoe Gozen was a girl who was taught the skills of an upper-class Japanese woman: writing, musical theatre, archery, horseback riding and fencing. She became a skilled horseman and brave warrior. She became a concubine of Minamoto no Yoshinaka when she was a teenager.

When Tomoe Gozen was about 28 years old, she fought in the Gempei War (1180–1185). In the Battle of Awazu (February 1184), Minamoto no Yoshinaka was killed by his cousin Yoritomo. Tomoe's reaction to this is not really known. Some people have theories about what might have happened to her. Some think she may have fled from the Gempei War or she may have continued fighting after his death. She also might have been asked to go by Yoshinaka (who believed that his honor would be destroyed if he was killed by a woman) when he realized he would be killed.

After this time, historians do not know what happened. Yoritomo's friend Yoshimori forced Tomoe to marry him. But Yoshinori died before Tomoe gave birth to a son. According to legend, their son was Asahina Yoshihide. He grew up to be a famous samurai. Tomoe joined a nunnery, where she stayed for the rest of her life. Today, Tomoe Gozen is a role model for many Japanese women.

Al-Kindi

Abu Yūsuf Yaʻqūb ibn ʼIsḥāq aṣ-Ṣabbāḥ al-Kindī (, ; 801 – 873 CE), was an Iraqi philosopher. He was called "the Philosopher of the Arabs". He is often thought of as the first Arab philosopher, and one of the most important scholars in the Islamic world.

Al-Kindi was born in Yemen to a rich family. As well as philosophy, he worked in astronomy, alchemy, mathematics, medicine, geography, and many other topics. He became a member of a scientific place of study called the House of Wisdom. As a member there, he helped to preserve a type of philosophy called Hellenistic philosophy. He also edited Greek treatises (written works that formally explain a topic). He also wrote his own treatises on vision, precious stones and minerals. He wrote the first treatise on various types of steel swords, metallurgy. His treatises on music were thought to be the best works on the subject of music in Arabic. He died at age 72 in 873.




Cai Lun

Cai Lun (; 50 AD – 121) was a Chinese eunuch and politician. He is generally regarded as the inventor of paper. Earlier forms of paper, such as papyrus, were used in China from the 2nd century BC. However, Cai Lun developed another form of paper, which is used today.

Cai Lun was born in Leiyang (then called Guiyang), a part of Hunan. He lived during the Han Dynasty. His courtesy name was Jingzhong (). He served the government as a eunuch from AD 75, and in AD 89 got a promotion to be a "Shang Fang Si", someone who makes weapons, and a Regular Palace Attendant (中常侍). Cai Lun invented paper in the year 105. For his invention, he was rewarded by the Emperor. After his death he was considered the patron of papermaking. To make paper, Cai Lun used a pulp made of materials such as tree bark and rags. He then strained the liquid from the pulp and spread it out to dry. Legend has it that the mortar, a tool he used to grind materials, was buried in a pool near his grave.


Shen Kuo

Shen Kuo (or Shen Gua ; 1031–1095) was a Chinese scientist and politician. He lived during the Song Dynasty. He was a polymath, being good at many fields of study.

Many of his most important works came from his use of astronomy. In 1088, Shen was the first to describe the magnetic needle compass, which would be used for navigation. He was also one of the first to suggest that the Earth goes through gradual climate change. His hobbies consisted of music, painting, calligraphy, and philosophy.


Al Sahili

Abu Ishaq Ibrahim al-Sahili (1290–1346) was an architect during the Mali Empire. He lived under the rule of Mansa Musa.

He was born in Granada in 1290. At the time this was part of Muslim Spain. Al-Sahili studied law and the arts. He was known as a gifted poet. His family were rich merchants (traders). He left Granada in 1321 and began to travel through the Middle East, to Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Yemen. In 1346, he met the ruler of Mali, Mansa Musa, who loved his poetry and invited him to return.

Al-Sahili built for Mansa Musa an audience chamber (or Djingereyber; Great Mosque) in 1327. The mosque was described as a square building with a dome. The outside was decorated with plaster and patterns in colors. It was built with banco: soil mixed with wood, mixed with dried grass, and other fibers allowed to dry in the sun. It was built with the same architectural style as the Alhambra in Granada. Mansa Musa then wanted him to make a house for him, but the building was destroyed over time. He started a new trend of rounded arches in Timbuktu. Al-Sahili died there in 1346.

Mansa Sakura

Mansa Sakura (also spelled Sakoura) was the sixth emperor ("mansa") of the Mali Empire. He was born a slave, but was later freed. Soon after he was freed he became a general in the army of Sundiata Keita. When Sundiata Keita died, there was a struggle between his sons over who would become the emperor. Around 1285, Sakura took control of the throne. He became the ruler of Mali and brought the empire back together. 

Mansa Sakura became a powerful leader. He was known for exploring other lands and using the ideas he saw in his own kingdom. He also encouraged trade. Under Sakura's leadership, the Mali Empire made several new conquests. It expanded along the Gambia River to the sea. It became a dominant force in West Africa.

Sakura performed the Hajj shortly before his death. On his way home, he was attacked near Djibouti by warriors who wanted his gold. He was killed in the attack, which happened around the year 1300.

After Sakura died, the throne was returned to the royal heirs of the Keita dynasty. The next emperor was Sundiata's nephew, Gao.

Sonni Ali

Sonni Ali (also known as Sunni Ali Ber or Sunni Ali) was the first king of the Songhai Empire in western Africa. He ruled from about 1464 to 1492. He was the 15th ruler of the Sonni dynasty. During Sonni's reign, Songhai surpassed the Mali Empire in power. His armies captured several important cities, such as Timbuktu (in 1468) and Djenné (captured in 1475). His battle strategies greatly expanded the empire's territory.

Before Sonni took Timbuktu in 1468, the city was controlled by Tuareg raiders. He then conquered the Tuareg and took them under his rule, which brought the great Saharan trade routes to his kingdom. After conquering Timbuktu, he and his army went south to conquer the port of Djenné, on the Niger River. The city surrendered after a long-fought siege.

Sonni defined himself as Muslim, but was careful to not separate himself from the traditional animist beliefs. He executed many of the clerics from Timbuktu. He ran a very organized and powerful military. His army included both soldiers on horseback, as well as soldiers who fought on foot. He also built a fleet of ships to control the ports along the Niger River.

In 1480, Sunni Ali attacked the Mossi Kingdoms south of the Niger River. Unfortunately, he did not conquer the Mossi, but he was able to stop the spread of their empire. He also fought a successful war against several of the Fulani states. On his return home from this war, Sonni drowned in a river, in 1493

Soumaoro Kanté

Soumaoro Kanté (also written Sumanguru Kanté) was a king of the Sosso people during the 13th century. The Sosso formed their kingdom in the 1180s, after the collapse of the Ghana Empire.

In the "Epic of Sundiata", Soumaoro is portrayed as a villain. He is said to have been a supernatural warrior with eight heads rising above his own. Many of his military victories were associated with his supernatural powers.

In 1203, Soumaoro captured Koumbi, the old capital of Ghana. He conquered several neighbouring peoples, including nine other kingdoms in the early 1200s. Among these were the Mandinka in what is now Mali. Soumaoro killed all of the Mandinka king's sons except one. This son, Sundiata Keita, was a cripple, and Soumaoro did not believe him to be a threat.

A short time later, however, Sundiata built an alliance of smaller kingdoms to oppose Soumaoro. Legends describe Sundiata as having supernatural powers as well. In 1230, Sundiata founded the Mali Empire. He defeated Soumaoro at the Battle of Kirina in 1235.

Sourmaoro ruled as a tyrant. His empire lasted a little more that 30 years. He was unable to maintain stability. He also made his people pay heavy taxes. He made them give him large amounts of gold, food, and livestock. On top of that he demanded that his subjects turn over the most beautiful women for his pleasure and the strongest boys to be his slaves. He killed anyone suspected of becoming a potential threat to his rule. Although he was successful on the battlefield, Sumanguru an arrogant, brutal and intolerant ruler. He failed at winning the faith and loyalty of the people he had hoped to unify under his rule.

Sundiata Keita

Sundiata Keita ( 1210 – c. 1260) was the founder of the Mali Empire. He ruled as emperor ("mansa") from 1235 to 1260. He is celebrated as a hero of the Mandinka people of West Africa in the "Epic of Sundiata". Sundiata changed his father's small kingdom into the core of the Mali Empire. It grew to be one of largest and richest empires of Africa.

Sundiata Keita was born in about 1210. His father was Naré Maghann Konaté, a king of the Mandinka. Keita was disabled from birth. His legend follows the theme of a culture hero overcoming extreme hardships to achieve greatness. According to the legend, Keita and his mother went into voluntary exile to avoid the risk of being killed by his jealous half-brother, Kankaran Tuman, who had become king in 1218. While Keita and his mother were in exile, the Mandinka were conquered by the Sosso Empire. Later, Keita was recalled by his fellow people to free them from this foreign oppression.

In the early 1200s, the independence of the Mandinka was threatened by the Sosso. Sosso was one of the many kingdoms that succeeded the Ghana Empire. Keita, who had already become a king, gathered his people and fought a battle with the Sosso army. In 1235, Keita and his army destroyed the army of Soumaoro Kanté, the ruler of the Sosso. This battle is called the Battle of Kirina, located in present-day Mali.

Further military advancements led to the expansion of the Mali Empire. The empire thrived, because it controlled many of the major gold fields and was an important center of trans-Saharan trade. Keita also successfully combined Islamic and traditional African beliefs to create a functional kingdom. Today, some of the Mandinka people of West Africa still regard Sundiata as a hero.

Little is known about the later life of Keita, but it is known that Keita ruled for about 25 years before his death. It is said that Keita was killed in an accident in his capital city.

Zhang Heng

Zhang Heng (also written Chang Heng, ; AD 78–139) was a Chinese scientist who worked in many subjects. He lived during the Han dynasty. He was an accomplished engineer, meteorologist, geologist, philosopher, mathematician, astronomer and writer.

Zhang invented the first seismometer, a machine that measures the strength of earthquakes. He is remembered for many other inventions and writings. He invented the seismometer in 132 AD. Heng was also the first in China to apply a grid system to maps, from which positions and distances could be calculated.

Some of his jobs were chief astronomer of the Imperial Chancellery for Astronomical and Calendrical Science, and chief minister under the rule of Moana. He also wrote many works ranging from poetry to books full of his scientific research. One was his book of astronomical research and it described his theories about previously unexplained things that could be seen in the night sky. Some things it theorized were that the Moon was lit by the Sun instead of making its own light. It also proposed that the Moon could be eclipsed by the shadow of the Earth. 



Refractory

A refractory is a material that can stand high temperature. It is used in furnaces, kilns, incinerators and reactors. Materials to make refractory must be chemically and physically stable at high temperature, such as alumina, silica, magnesia and lime.




One-line diagram

The one-line diagram (or single-line diagram) is a diagram that shows a three-phase power system in a simple way. It is used in many power-related applications. Each electrical element is represented by a unique symbol. Although it describes three-phase electricity, only one conductor is shown in the diagram.

Rotor (electric)

A rotor is the part of an electric machine (motor or generator) that rotates. It rotates because of the torque developed by wires and magnetic field inside the machine.


Stator

A stator is the part of a rotary system that does not move. It is the fixed, stationary part of an electric machine (motor or generator). The stator might act as the field magnet (working with the armature to create the spinning movement) or as the armature (receives influence from the moving field coils of the rotor).


Kabsa

Kabsa is the national dish of Saudi Arabia. It is a dish made of rice and meat, cooked either separately or together. It can be made with spices and camel meat, lamb, chicken or fish. It is usually eaten for lunch and sometimes for dinner. Kabsa is often a dish for a group of people. The kabsa is normally served on a round metal dish placed on the floor and people eat with their right hand, although a spoon may be used in countries such as Kuwait, Bahrain and other Gulf countries.

Uninterruptible power supply

An uninterruptible power supply (or uninterruptible power source; UPS) is an apparatus that provides electric power in an emergency when there is a problem with the normal electricity supply. It provides an almost instantaneous supply of electricity during any power failure. It is used normally to protect any sensitive hardware (computer, data center, telecommunication) in which if there is any disruption of power supply, it might easily damage that equipment.
UPS batteries are lead acid batteries that use gel sulfuric acid instead of the liquid sulfuric acid car batteries use. UPS batteries are sealed and have the property to store electricity and provide a consistent high surge DC current to a UPS system which converts it to a stabilized AC current. UPS batteries have a wide selection of dimensions and one of their main properties is that they do not leak or produce fumes. This is one of the most important reasons why they are used safely in houses, server rooms, data centers, manufacturing environments, hospitals, offices, and other poorly ventilated areas. These sealed lead-acid batteries can be found in some of the electronics stores or UPS specialized stores.

Most people use a type of UPS called a full-time or full double conversion UPS, which is also the most effective. The utility power that comes into a UPS is alternating current (AC), which is also what most IT equipment needs (ITE). Choosing the correct UPS for the job is very important.

Batteries, on the other hand, use direct current (DC), so all battery-type UPSes must change the incoming alternating current (AC) power into direct current (DC) to charge the batteries. This process is called "rectification." The UPS must still send AC power to the ITE, so a device called an inverter must turn DC power back into AC power.

In a double-conversion UPS, power goes through the rectifier, and then the inverter is on its way to the ITE. The voltage and frequency of the output have nothing to do with the voltage and frequency of the input. They can even be completely different from the input, so this system is technically called "voltage and frequency independent" (VFI).

Faraday's laws of electrolysis

Faraday's laws of electrolysis are a set of scientific laws used in chemistry. They are used to express magnitudes of electrolytic effects. They were first described by Michael Faraday in 1834.

The first law states that the mass of a substance produced by electrolysis is directly proportional to the quantity of the electricity that passes through the cell.

The second law says: since Q, F, and z are constants, the larger the value of M/z (equivalent weight) the larger m will be.

Faraday's laws can be summarized by

where:

"M/z" is the same as the equivalent weight of the substance altered.

Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition

The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) is a control system for various industrial processes. It is controlled by a computer to monitor and control all of the processes that exist in an industry. It is a large-scale controlling method which can include several sites over long distance.

Programmable logic controller

A programmable logic controller (PLC) is a digital system used to make electrical and mechanical processes become automated. PLC can be found in almost all of the heavy industries which require process and sequences. PLC contains a unique set of inputs and outputs. The logic of PLC is programmed so that user can create a highly dedicated PLC working system for their intended purpose.

Nikki Sinclaire

Nicole "Nikki" Sinclaire (born 26 July 1968) is a British politician. In June 2012, she started We Demand a Referendum (WDAR), a political party. She was a member of the United Kingdom Independence Party until 2010.

She was born in Nicholas Sinclaire in London.

She is openly gay.

In November 2013, Sinclaire released a book about her life, "Never Give Up". In it she said that she was born male. When she was 23 she had sex reassignment surgery. The news made Sinclaire the United Kingdom's first transgender Member of Parliament.


Enterprise Center

Enterprise Center is a sports arena in St. Louis, Missouri. The arena opened on October 8, 1994, and is the current home to the St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey League (NHL). The arena was also home to Saint Louis University's men's basketball team from 1991 to 2008.

The arena was originally known as Kiel Center from 1994 to 2000 and Savvis Center from Aug 2000 to 2006. Scottrade acquired naming rights for the arena in September 2006.

The Scottrade Center has held many WWE events as well including: , Survivor Series in 1998, the special live tribute episode of WWF Raw is War that aired after the night of Owen Hart's death, No Mercy in 2001, Judgment Day in 2007, Elimination Chamber in 2010, Royal Rumble in 2012 and Extreme Rules in 2013.

The arena was initially expected to be renamed as the TD Ameritrade Center by the end of 2017, once the purchase of Scottrade by TD Ameritrade closed. However, TD Ameritrade decided not to put its name on the arena. The team later reached a new deal with Enterprise Holdings, a company based in the St. Louis suburb of Clayton, Missouri that owns the Enterprise, National, and Alamo car rental companies. The deal was announced on May 21, 2018, with the name officially changing to Enterprise Center on July 1 of that year.


Capital One Arena

Capital One Arena is a sports arena in Washington D.C. The arena opened on December 2, 1997, and is the current home to the Washington Capitals on the National Hockey League (NHL), Washington Wizards of the National Basketball Association (NBA), Washington Mystics of the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA), the Washington Valor of the Arena Football League, and the Georgetown University men's basketball team. The arena was also home to the Washington Power of the National Lacrosse League (NLL) from 2001 to 2002.

The arena was originally known as MCI Center from 1997 to 2006. It became Verizon Center in January 2006 when Verizon Communications acquired the naming rights for the arena. The name changed again in August 2017 when Capital One acquired naming rights.

Capital One Arena has held many WWE events as well including: SummerSlam in 2005, Cyber Sunday in 2007, Survivor Series in 2009 and WWE Capitol Punishment in 2011. Aside from WWE, the arena also hosted World Championship Wrestling (WCW)'s Starrcade pay-per-view in 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000.


Saadia Gaon

Saʻadiah ben Yosef Gaon (882/892 – 942) was a Jewish religious scholar and philosopher.

He was born in al-Fayyūm, Egypt. When he was 28, he left Egypt and his wife and two sons, and traveled to Babylonia. There, he helped schools in many Jewish communities. After a while, he left Babylonia because he was not happy with the government.

As a religious scholar, he translated the Bible into Arabic and wrote many commentaries on it. He also wrote the first Hebrew dictionary and grammar dictionary, and many books on Talmudic law. One of his famous books is called "Kitāb al-amānāt wa al-iʿtiqādāt" ("Book of Beliefs and Convictions").

He died at the age of 63, in Baghdad.

Al-Battani

Al-Battānī (other names include Albategnius, Albategni and Albatenius; born about 858 – died 929) was an Arab astronomer, astrologer and mathematician. He is considered an important astronomer and mathematician of the Islamic Golden Age. His discoveries about trigonometry were often quoted by medieval European astronomers; including by Copernicus. He was from Harran. His full name was Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Jābir ibn Sinān al-Raqqī al-Ḥarrānī al-Ṣābiʾ al-Battānī.

Al-Battani helped to calculate the distance between the Earth and the Sun, before the telescopes. This allowed him to refine existing values for the length of the year.

He is most famous for his book the "Kitāb az-Zīj" (or the "Zij"). The "Zij" was a book with 57 chapters dedicated to astronomy. He influenced the works of Copernicus, Johannes Kepler and Tycho Brahe, who were famous astronomers of later times. The book was translated many times into many different languages. Inside the "Zij", Al-Battani made a map of the stars, naming a few of them.

Al-Battani died of old age in the year 929. He had been protesting against the taxes in Baghdad, and died on the way home.


Kingsborough Community College

Kingsborough Community College is a community college in Brooklyn, New York. It is part of the City University of New York's university system. It is located in Manhattan Beach. It was built in 1963. It has around 38,000 students. It has a private beach which is open during the summer.


TD Garden

TD Garden is a sports arena in Boston, Massachusetts. The arena opened on September 30, 1995, and is the current home to the Boston Bruins of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association (NBA).

The arena was originally known as FleetCenter from 1995 to 2005. TD Banknorth acquired the naming rights for the arena on March 3, 2005. The name was changed to TD Banknorth Garden on July 1, 2005.

TD Garden has held many WWE events as well including: WrestleMania XIV in 1998, King of the Ring in 2000, Royal Rumble in 2003, SummerSlam in 2006, Survivor Series in 2008, Royal Rumble in 2011, Night of Champions in 2012, and Survivor Series in 2013.


Gagra

Gagra (Abkhaz and ; ) is a town in Abkhazia. It covers an area of about 5 kilometres. It is located on the northeastern coast of the Black Sea, at the base of the Caucasus Mountains. The moderate climate makes it a popular tourist resort.

Gagra is the centre of the Gagra District. It is located in the western part of Abkhazia. The river Psou serves as a border with Krasnodar Kray of Russia.

Gagra was established as a Greek colony. During the rule of the Kingdom of Colchis, they called it "Triglite".

In the time of the Roman Empire the town was renamed to "Nitica". Because of its geographical and commercial importance, it was attacked repeatedly by the Goths. The Romans did not neglect it, however. They fortified it well. After the Romans, the Byzantine Empire took control of all of Colchis, including "Nitica". It became a major trading center for merchants from Venice and Genoa. The name "Gagra" appeared for the first time on a map in 1308. This was on a map of the Caucasus made by the Italian Pietro Visconti. This map is now in the Library of Saint Mark in Venice.

In the 16th century, Gagra was a part of Georgia. It was invaded by the Ottoman Empire. Because of poverty and disease, most of its people had left. After Russia's victory over the Ottomans in 1878, Russia rebuilt the town.

In 1919, Vladimir Lenin established a "worker's resort" in Gagra. He nationalised the resort that had been built by Oldenburg. Then Gagra became a popular holiday resort for Soviet citizens. During World War II, it gained a new role as a site for the rehabilitation of wounded soldiers. After the war, various state-run sanatoriums were built there. The resort grew and was developed quickly as part of the "Soviet Riviera".

In the late 1980s, tensions grew between the Georgian and Abkhazian communities in the region. War started between 1992 and 1993. It ended in a defeat of the Georgian government's forces. Hundreds of thousands of ethnic Georgians were forced to leave their homes in Abkhazia. This was part of a mass ethnic cleansing, in which thousands of Georgian civilians were massacred. Gagra and the Abkhazian capital Sukhumi were at the centre of the fighting and suffered heavy damage.

After 1993, Gagra was under Russian occupation and under the control of separatist armed formations.

The most important landmarks of Gagra are:

On 14 May 2012, Gagra signed a cooperation agreement with Vladimir.


KeyBank Center

The KeyBank Center is a sports arena in Buffalo, New York. The arena opened on September 21, 1996, and is the current home to the Buffalo Sabres of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Buffalo Bandits of the National Lacrosse League (NLL).

The arena was originally known as Marine Midland Arena from 1996 to 1999 and as HSBC Arena from 2000 to 2011. First Niagara Bank acquired the naming rights for the arena in 2011. The arena name next changed after KeyBank bought First Niagara Bank in 2016. Outside signs began to show the new name in August of that year, with the name change to "KeyBank Center" becoming official on September 19.

KeyBank Center has held many WWE events as well including: The Great American Bash in 2005, Armageddon in 2008, Night of Champions in 2011, and WWE Battleground in 2013.


John Michael Montgomery

John Michael Montgomery (born 1965) is a singer from the U.S. state of Kentucky. He sings and writes country music. He has been a singer since 1991.





KatieJane Garside

KatieJane Garside (born Katrina Jane Garside; 8 July 1968) is an English singer-songwriter. She first became known as the singer of the indie rock band Daisy Chainsaw. Garside is now the singer of Ruby Throat.

Garside joined the band in 1989. With the band Garside released two extended plays. The band then released one album, "Eleventeen" in 1992. Their single "Love Your Money" reached number 26 in the UK Singles Chart in February 1992. It is Garside's most successful song so far.

Garside sung on two songs on Creaming Jesus' 1992 album "Guilt by Association". She was also in the music video for their single "Lilies".

In 1993, Garside left Daisy Chainsaw. She was replaced with Belinda Leith.

In 1994, Garside sung on the album "The Greatest Show of Truth" by The Sacred Sawdust Ring.

Garside sung on five songs on Test Dept.'s 1995 album "Totality".

In 1999, she started an alternative rock band called Queenadreena with Crispin Gray. Queenadreena released their first album, "Taxidermy", in 2000. In 2002, they released their second album "Drink Me". In 2005, their third album "The Butcher and the Butterfly" was released by One Little Indian. One single was released from the album, "Medicine Jar".

In 2007, the band released "Ride a Cock Horse". The next year they released "Djin". It was only released in Japan. In September 2009 it was released in the UK.

The band broke up in 2010.

In 2005, she released an album of songs she made on her own called "Lalleshwari/Lullabies in Glass Wilderness".

In 2006, Garside met Chris Wittingham on the London Underground. He was busking there. They started making music together. In 2007 they released an album together called "The Ventriloquist" under the name Ruby Throat. It has a folk sound. At first they released 500 copies of the cd inside red leather books. The album was released on Amazon in 2008.

In 2008, Garside released an album with called "Corps Electriques". Nils Petter Molvær played the trumpet on it.

In 2009, Ruby Throat released their second album, "Out of a Black Cloud Came a Bird". The album has a cover of "Nothing" by Townes Van Zandt. Also that year, Jeff Zetner's album "The Dying Days of Summer" was released. Garside sung on the thirteenth song on the album, "Where We Fall We'll Lie". 

In 2012, they released a third album, "O' Doubt O' Stars".

She has a sister called Melanie Garside. Melanie is also a musician. She was the bass player for Queenadreena.

Garside lives on a boat with Chris Wittingham and their children.

Taiwan Power Company

Taiwan Power Company (Taipower; ) is a company owned by the government of the Republic of China. It provides electricity to Taiwan, including the islands of Penghu, Kinmen and Lienchiang. The company was established on May 1946.


Steam turbine

A steam turbine is a machine that gets thermal energy from pressurised steam. It uses the energy to do mechanical work by rotation. It is usually connected to a generator to produce electricity. The heat to produce steam comes from burning a fuel such as coal, from burning trash in an incinerator, from the waste heat of other industrial processes, from a nuclear reactor, or from a natural source such as sunlight or geothermal heat.

There are many sizes of steam turbines, from small ones (less than 0.75 kW) for pumps and other devices, to larger ones (1,500,000 kW) for producing electricity.


Surface condenser

A surface condenser is a device in a power station that changes the steam used by a steam turbine back into water. The steam is then used again to turn the turbine after being evaporated inside boiler. It can also be used in other applications and different types of industries.

Pulverizer

A pulverizer is a machine used to grind different types of material. This is done so that the material will be able to be used or can be easily transported. An example of a material that can be grinded is coal.

There are different speeds used by pulverizers.

Battery charger

A battery charger is a device that makes a used battery able to be used again. It works by forcing electric current into it from the opposite polarity of the battery. However, only rechargeable batteries can be recharged with a battery charger.

Battery chargers can be found in many forms, such as for mobile phone batteries, an electric vehicle charger, and a laptop battery charger (adapter).

Adobe Premiere Elements

Adobe Premiere Elements is an editing software that allows users to edit videos and make home-made movies, using the provided options.

Elements was made as a simpler and easier to learn version of Premiere Pro.

Upon release, the software was made compatible with Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows Vista, and Mac OS X. The installation of the software is different for each device, providing step by step instructions. It can only be installed once per device, where it then needs to be uninstalled before installing again to a different device.

An Adobe ID is a paid service that allows access to otherwise inaccessible content created by Adobe. The price of an Adobe ID has varied in the past five years. It currently costs around ten dollars a month, although the price may be different depending where you are located. Creating your Adobe ID also unlocks free benefits for Adobe Photoshop and an automatic online backup.

A free thirty day trial is available to those who are willing to download the often large amount of data required. The trial includes everything you would get from buying the product, attempting to get customers to buy the full version after the trial is over.

Adobe Premiere Elements has won over 180 editing awards and has been classified as number one award winning editing software for the past 10 years.

Adobe has a built in sharing configuration, that allows users to share their videos to major websites such as YouTube and Facebook. It also allows easy transferring onto a DVD, or into AVCHD format.

Recloser

A recloser is a circuit breaker which can be closed automatically after the breaker has been opened because of electric fault. Because many faults in power systems fix themselves after they happen, the installation of recloser ensures more continuity of power and higher availability for electricity supply to the load.

Geotechnical investigation

A geotechnical investigation is a process to analyze and measure the quality of the rock and soil at the site where people plan to build any construction work. By knowing the soil and rock property below the planned construction site, the exact foundation material for the construction building can be properly designed to match with the character of the soil below it so that the building can stand strongly above the examined soil.

Aesop Rock

Ian Mathias Bavitz (born June 5, 1976), better known as Aesop Rock, is an American rapper who lives in San Francisco, California. He was born in New York.

Down payment

A down payment is the amount that being paid first at the beginning of any business transaction and settle the remaining payment through installments. This payment is made so that the buyer or customer can own the goods being sold or for the case of ordering in a factory (for highly-customized goods), the goods can be put into the production line and start to be produced first.

How much a customer needs to pay for the down payment is different in each country and each business type. The amount of down payment and the remaining payment are usually agreed upon at the time of making the purchase or order..

Purchase order

A purchase order (PO) is a document stating the wish of a buyer to purchase something from a seller. It indicates all of the exact details of the goods the buyer intends to buy. When the seller accepts the purchase order, it forms a legal contract between both sides. This means that the seller is required to provide the goods in exchange for payment by the buyer.

Trichromacy

Trichromacy is a type of color vision. Animals with this kind of vision see colors with cone cells in their retina. The three types of cone cell are sensitive to different wavelengths of light. Color is constructed in the brain's visual cortex. Humans and many other primates have full color vision. Most mammals do not, because they have only one or two types of cone cells, which do not discriminate so many distinct wavelengths. Most other vertebrates such as lizards and birds have four types of cone cells, hence can discriminate more colors than humans can.

PPG Paints Arena

PPG Paints Arena is a sports arena in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The arena opened on August 18, 2010, and is the current home of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League (NHL). It was also home to Pittsburgh Power of the Arena Football League (AFL) from the team's 2011 entry into the league until its demise in 2014.

When it opened, the arena was known as Consol Energy Center, with the naming rights owned by Consol Energy. In October 2016, Consol Energy opted out of its naming rights contract, and PPG Industries took over the naming rights, choosing to promote its paint brand on the arena. The first Penguins game played in the arena was on October 7, 2010 in a 3–2 loss against their rivals, the Philadelphia Flyers.

The arena hosted the Frozen Four in 2013. The first event that happened in the arena was a concert by Paul McCartney. The arena hosted the WWE's Royal Rumble on January 26, 2014.


Take Me Home

Take Me Home is the second album by British-Irish boy band One Direction. It was released or made available to the public on 9 November 2012.

Bad Moon

Bad Moon is a 1996 American horror and thriller movie. The movie is about strange events, full moons and werewolves. Mariel Hemingway plays attorney Janet Harrison. The movie was distributed by Warner Bros.. The movie was rated R for gore, horror, violence and some language. They had earlier given a higher rating based on graphic violence, which was then cut from the movie. When released, the movie received terrible reviews. "Bad Moon" was a huge box office flop.

4.3.2.1

4.3.2.1 is a British 2010 crime-thriller movie. The movie is about four friends, all 19, during the late 2000s decade. One of them (Shannon) has one bad day after another. She gets mugged, assaulted and rejected. Another, Joanne (or simply Jo, played by Emma Roberts), works inside a 24-hour retail store. The reviews mixed. It was released in June 2010.

William Allain

William A. "Bill" Allain (February 14, 1928 – December 2, 2013) was an American politician. He held office as the 58th Governor of Mississippi as a Democrat from 1984 to 1988.

Allain died December 2, 2013 in Jackson, Mississippi from unknown causes, aged 85.

Hail to the Chief

"Hail to the Chief" is the official presidential anthem of the United States. The song is played only when the president of the United States appears during public appearances. It is also played during funerals of former [residents such as during Ronald Reagan's funeral. This song is under the public domain.

Lincoln College, Oxford

Lincoln College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. Its full name is "The College of Blessed Mary and All Saints, Lincoln". The college was founded in 1427 by Richard Fleming, Bishop of Lincoln. It is the 9th oldest college at the University. 

Cognitive neuropsychology

Cognitive neuropsychology is a subject in psychology. It is a combination of biology and cognitive psychology. These psychologists study human behavior and knowledge. This is a growing subject. Unlike cognitive neuroscience, cognitive neuropsychology pays attention to the mind rather than the brain.

Many scientists have worked to make cognitive neuropsychology. Their findings have created an understanding of the brain and how humans learn and do things. Most of these scientists were not psychologists, but are known for their contributions to psychology. The technology today also helps advance what is known. With brain imaging and other methods the brain can now be visualized. Cognitive neuroscience can be broken into different topics such as memory, attention, language, and emotion.

Cognitive neuropsychology has its roots in research on language disorder that was done in the second half of the 19th century. One discovered that aphasia takes different forms depending on the (place or) location of brain damage; Knowledge from the research has been called a framework for understanding brain function (, or knowledge on which one has added additional (or more) knowledge).
The early history of cognitive neuropsychology begins with humans’ first acknowledgement of the mind/brain. Beliefs in the importance of the mind/brain/head emerge as early as 4000BC with the Sumerians. Records of Sumerian intake of the poppy plant (which contains opium) include descriptions of the mind-altering affects. This suggests a reference to the brain. Another clue pointing towards acknowledgement of the brain is the discovery of skulls with holes drilled into them in 2000BC. Discovery of these skulls points to the brain as important to life. The motivation behind these drillings could be spiritual or medical.

The greatest contribution to early cognitive neuropsychology came from Egypt in 1700BC. This is the time of the Edwin Smith Surgical Papyrus. This document has the first written description of the human brain. These writings include descriptions of meninges and cerebrospinal fluid. Ancient Greek philosophers Aristotle, Plato and Almaceon wrote about the form and function of the mind, psyche and soul. Aristotle saw the heart as the seat of the mind. He saw the heart containing all emotion and thinking. He also thought that the brain functioned to cool the heart down. Unlike Aristotle, Plato believed the brain to be the place for mental processes. With Aristotle we see the emergence of the dualistic view of mind and body. The dualistic versus monistic approach to the mind and brain is a debate dominating much of the history of cognitive neuroscience.

Galen was a Roman physician whose surgical descriptions of neurology helped describe the anatomy of the brain and neurological disorders. The Church was against human dissection. This limited the uncovering of new information. Many unskilled physicians attempted dissections in secret, but there were no real, scientific discoveries in anatomy for centuries..

During the renaissance cognitive neuropsychology began to develop a deeper understanding of the brain. Vesalius wrote the first neuroscience textbook in 1543 and described the hydrocephalus in 1550. We also see the first use of the term “hippocampus” in 1564. This is when the brain was starting to be seen as a complex organ responsible for many operations of the body. René Descartes was the most well known figure in cognitive neuropsychology at this time. Some of Descartes’ contributions stemmed from his interest in the nervous system and brain’s role in behavior. He thought that the nervous system was made up of hollow tubes which filled with “animal spirits” any time an action were to take place in that part of the body. His other contributions included the more developed notion of dualism. He hypothesized that the brain and mind are two separate entities that exist on their own but are depend on each other. He theorized that the pineal gland in the brain is where these two separate entities interacted. Descartes’ dualistic theory serves as his most influential contribution to cognitive neuropsychology.

During the 18th century science began to develop. The first big advance was in human reflexes. These bodily reactions to stimuli or outside forces were observed and measured. This was found by studying axons and learning how signals travel in the human body. The development of the microscope helped. The brain's nerve fibers could now be seen and described. Cerebrospinal fluid was found in the spaces of the brain and spinal cord. With that, the physiology of psychology began to take control of cognition. These findings are all still true today.

Electroconvulsion therapy or electric shock therapy was a method used to treat mental disorders. This was used to treat blindness, hysteria, depression, and many other disorders. It was thought to be the way of the future in treating disabilities.
The 19th century started the argument of localism vs. holism in cognitive neuropsychology. People were starting to question holism and explore the idea of localism. Localism means that the brain has individual areas that are responsible for certain actions in the body. The study of Phrenology started these localization theories. Phrenology is looking at the human skull and finding bumps to be measured. Any strange bumps or shapes in the skull were then paired with intelligence or self traits in a person. These traits could include language, logic, and even love. If a part of the skull was pushed out it would mean that trait was better. This started localization theories 

The next big thing in cognitive neuroscience has to do with ablation studies. This is when parts of the brain were removed so function could be measured without this brain area. For example, a neuropsychologist can remove the cerebellum. After it is removed, the animal's balance was not good. This links the cerebellum to balance. As for brain damage, the most famous case is with Phineas Gage. He was working on the railroad when a piece of metal went through the front of his head. He did not die from this brain injury. However, his normal personality changed. This brought the idea that the frontal cortex, the part of the brain that was stabbed, controlled how a person acted. Another study found the localization of language in the brain. Two separate scientists studied patients with language problems. They found that they had lesions or damage in two certain areas of their brain. Broca's area controlled talking. Wernicke's area was found to control understanding of language.

This way of looking at problems in the brain led to studies of epileptic patients. An epileptic patient is a person that frequently suffers from seizures. These seizures were studied to learn more about how the brain sends electrical signals. These electrical signals were then measured. It was found that each neuron can send a signal at certain speeds. These neurons were then dyed with a stain in order to be seen. At first it was thought that all nerves were connected like a web called a nerve net. However, with more complex stain it was found that each nerve is separate and can fire on their own.

John B. Watson, who was a behaviorist in psychology, argued that cognition could not be studied scientifically because it could not be observed. For the first half of the 20th century, psychology was dominated by behaviorism, which was mainly stimuli and a person’s response to it. Pierre Marie in 1906 criticized Broca, who was one of the first to create the field of Cognitive Neuropsychology. Henry Head in 1926 also attacked the whole field of cognitive neuropsychology. 

Another reason why cognitive neuropsychology disappeared in the early twentieth century was because the science was not yet advanced enough. Many cognitive psychologists were also neurologists. These two fields of study were not separate as they are today. These neurologists wanted to study modules in the brain, and localize them with parts of the brain, but technology did not allow this yet. The methods used today were not yet created. They could only study where a person’s brain lesion was by doing an autopsy after the person was dead. This was a reason this field was criticized, and why many people believed cognition could not be studied scientifically.

In the middle of the twentieth century there was a transition called the 'Cognitive Revolution' in psychology. This is when psychologists began to agree that there were scientific ways to study cognition. These new beliefs about cognitive psychology were brought on by John C. Marshall's and Nora Newcombe’s study of reading, and Shallice and Warrington’s study of memory in the early 1970s. In the mid 1980s the first undergraduate book was published by Ellis & Young named "Human Cognitive Neuropsychology". There was also new technology that made it easier to study the brain and the mind. 

An important feature of the later half of the twentieth century was the clear separation of cognitive neuropsychology and cognitive neuroscience. Cognitive neuropsychologists study the human mind after brain damage has occurred, and focus more on cognition. Cognitive neuroscientists focus more attention on the neurons. While the cognitive neuroscientists are concerned with how the brain works, and what parts of the brain is responsible for what functions, cognitive neuropsychologists want to study people with brain damage to try and see how the human mind works. With this information, they can formulate theories about the human mind, and also make better therapies for people with brain damage. Since every person’s brain damage is different, cognitive neuropsychologists study only single cases instead of groups of people, or syndromes. Psychologists study the mind by looking at people who lost some sort of function after brain damage occurred. For example, if a person could recognize both faces and objects before brain damage occurred, but then after brain damage in a certain part of the brain they could only recognize faces and not objects, then psychologists can make inferences about the functions in certain modules of the brain.

The late 20th century was also when they began using computational models of cognition. The psychologists would make theories and install them into a computer, then virtually damage the fake brain where the patient had damage. By doing this, they can get a better look at how the mind works. This is one way that technology has helped in studying the human mind. This, along with the invention of the devices to scan the brain, has made a big difference in cognitive neuropsychology.

Cognitive neuropsychologists use the method of double dissociation when studying the modules of the mind. This is when they use many patients who have had brain damage and try to figure out which parts of the brain are responsible for different cognition. This concept of modularity was developed by Jerry Fodor in his 1983 book The Modularity of the Mind. Psychologists disagree as to how much and which parts of the mind is constructed modules.

In this century, cognitive neuropsychologists use many methods to study the mind. They use machines that scan the brain to see where the damage is, and then study cognitive abilities of these patients. They still use double dissociation for studying the patients, case studies, computational models, and many other features that were invented in the late twentieth century. With new technology, there is likely to be a lot of improvement in this field.

Cognitive neuropsychology uses of investigations of people with problems of cognition to learn more about normal cognitive processes. This is possible through the many technological advances such as:

Sulukta

Sulukta is a small town in Kyrgyzstan. Over 20 thousand people live in Sulukta.

Surface mining

Surface mining is a method which operates on the surface of the land. Machines remove the overburden to get at material, such as coal, below it. 

Surface mining includes strip mining, open-pit mining (UK: open cast mining) and mountaintop removal mining. It is mining in which soil and rock overlying the mineral deposit are removed. It is the opposite of underground mining, in which the overlying rock is left in place, and the mineral removed through shafts or tunnels. 

Surface mining gained popularity throughout the 20th century, and became the main way of coal mining in places such as Appalachia and America's Midwest.

In most forms of surface mining, heavy equipment, such as earthmovers, first remove the overburden. Next, huge machines, such as dragline excavators or Bucket-wheel excavators, extract the mineral.

Control system

Control system is a device or system that gives commands to manage the behavior of other devices or systems. The commands can be set or programmed, and the output is determined by the input. A control system is represented by a logic diagram.


Cyclonic separation

Cyclonic separation is a process to take out all of the unwanted particles from air, gas, or steam. The process uses a process called vortex separation and does not use filtering. It uses rotational and gravitational force to separate the unwanted particles. The process is done in a device called cyclone separator or "cyclone". The word "cyclone" in meteorology (weather) is a force in which the air's movement spirals inward.


Boiler

A boiler is a device used to heat water or other fluids until it boils or before boiling point. The heated or vaporized fluid is then used for various process applications, such as central heating, power generation, cooking, and sanitation. 

Hot water boilers heat water for the purpose of domestic or commercial heating and hot water supply.

Steam boilers generate steam in order to power turbines for power generation and various other industrial heating applications.

The source of the heat for boiler can be from coal, oil, wood, rejected heat or natural gas.

The different types of boilers find their use in different applications.

Where steam is required for space heating, the boiler is often called a "steam generator". A niche application was for heating railroad passenger cars while steam locomotives were being phased out. The steam generator would be oil-fired on diesel locomotives or electrically heated on electric locomotives. Steam heating is now uncommon on trains. Modern trains are usually heated by electric heaters.

Bulk material handling

Bulk material handling is a field of engineering. It involves designing equipment to handle dry materials in their bulk form. It consists of stationary machinery, mobile equipment and storage facilities. The purpose of this process is to transport materials from one place to another place or places.

SAP Center at San Jose

The SAP Center at San Jose is a sports arena in San Jose, California. The arena opened on September 7, 1993, and is the current home to the San Jose Sharks of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the San Jose Sabercats of the Arena Football League (AFL).

The arena was originally known as San Jose Arena from 1993 to 2001, the Compaq Center at San Jose from 2001 to 2002, and as HP Pavilion at San Jose from 2002 to 2013. SAP acquired the naming rights for the arena in June 2013 and renamed the arena SAP Center at San Jose.

The arena has held many WWE events as well including: the Royal Rumble in 1998, SummerSlam in 2001, and The Great American Bash in 2007.


Honda Center

The Honda Center is a sports arena in Anaheim, California. The arena opened on June 19, 1993, and is the current home to the Anaheim Ducks of the National Hockey League (NHL) and will be the home of the future Los Angeles Kiss of the Arena Football League (AFL) in 2014.

The arena was originally known as Pond of Anaheim in 1993 and as Arrowhead Pond of Anaheim from 1993 to 2006. Honda acquired the naming rights for the arena in October 2006.

The arena has held many WWE events as well including: WrestleMania XII in 1996, the Royal Rumble in 1999, and WrestleMania 2000 in 2000.


Pat Tanaka

Patrick "Pat" Tanaka (born August 5, 1961) is an American professional wrestler.

He is best known for working with American Wrestling Association where he was one half of Badd Company and the World Wrestling Federation where he was one half of The Orient Express.

While in AWA, he won the AWA World Tag Team Championship as a member of Badd Company on March 19, 1988 when they defeated the Midnight Rockers. The team held the championships for a year and the lost them to the Olympians (Brad Rheingans and Ken Patera) on March 25, 1989.

In mid-March 2006, he opened Fighting Spirit Dojo in Minster, Ohio along with shoot-fighter Jody Poff. He teaches judo to more than 50 students while Poff teaches a group of mixed-martial-artists.


Cranes (band)

Cranes are a British dream pop band. Their most well known song is perhaps "Shining Road". They formed in 1985 in Portsmouth, England. The band's founding members were singer Alison Shaw, her brother Jim Shaw and guitarist Kevin Dunford. Dunford left the band in 1990. He was replaced by Mark Francombe who had such diverse musical influences as Velvet Underground, Can and Thobbing Gristle. He also liked building experimental electronic devices to alter his guitar-sound as well as wearing experimental hair. In 1989 their 6-track EP "Self Non Self" was released by Bite Back. A further guitarist, Matt Cope, was recruited. In 1990 they released an EP called "Inescapable". It was their first release on the record label Dedicated. Later in 1990 they released another EP, "Espero". 1991 saw the release of "Tomorrows Tears" followed by "Adoration".

Their first album, "Wings of Joy", was released in 1991. It reached number fifty-two in the UK Album Chart. In 1992 they opened 90 shows for The Cure on the U.S. and European legs of their "Wish" world tour. During a break from this tour their second album "Forever" was written and recorded and was released in 1993. It got to number forty in the UK. The single "Jewel" reached number twenty-nine in the UK Singles Chart. It was a collaboration with The Cure and became Cranes best-selling single.

Their third album "Loved" was released in 1994. Three singles were released from the album: "Lilies", "Shining Road", and "Beautiful Friend". In 1996 Cranes released 10,000 copies of "La Tragédie d'Oreste et Électre". This album, based on a Jean-Paul Satre work, Shaw recites entirely in French. The next year "Population 4" was released. It was their last album on Dedicated.

In 1997 the band broke up. In 2000 they reformed. They released "Future Songs" in 2001. In 2002 they performed before The Cure at Hyde Park. They released an EP called "Submarine". Only 2000 copies of it were made. There were eight songs on it. All of them were remixes. In 2004 "Particles and Waves" was released. Cranes performed as the opening act for The Cure at the Move Festival. In 2007 Cherry Red Records released "Wings of Joy" again. Seven extra songs were on it. In 2008 they released an album called "Cranes" on their record label Dadaphonic. Pitchfork gave it a score of 7.2 out of 10. In 2009 "Loved" was released again by Cherry Red Records. There were seven extra songs on it.

Zola Jesus

Nika Roza Danilova (born April 11, 1989), better known as Zola Jesus, is an American singer-songwriter. She has released three albums. 

Danilova was born in Phoenix, Arizona to Russian parents. She was raised in Merrill, Wisconsin.

In 2008 Danilova released Poor Sons.

In 2009, she made her first album, "The Spoils", in her apartment. Sacred Bones Records released it in 2010. "Pitchfork" gave it a score of 7.6/10. 

In March 2010 "Stridulum" was released. It was an EP of six songs. 

Her second album "Stridulum II" was released in August 2010. It was her first album in the UK. In October 2010, she released an extended play called "Valusia".

Her third album "Conatus" was released in October 2011. Danilova sang on "New France" on Orbital's 2012 album "Wonky". 

In August 2013 "Versions" was released.

Bowser Jr.

Bowser Jr. is a character from the "Mario" video game series. He is the son of Bowser and prince of the Koopas. He is known for inventing machines, painting graffiti, and doing what he can to make his father proud. He first appeared in "Super Mario Sunshine". Since then, he has become a main character and appears in most of the "Mario" video game series.

Bowser Jr. first appears in "Super Mario Sunshine", where he disturbs Mario's vacation with Princess Peach on Delfino Isle by making the island dirty and kidnapping Peach. He makes himself look like Mario, so the people of the island put Mario in jail. He kidnapped Peach because Bowser made him think that Peach was his mother, and he had to keep her safe. He later finds out that Peach is not actually his mother, but he still wants to fight Mario again in the future to make his father proud.

He later appears in "New Super Mario Bros.", where he is the boss of the tower levels at the middle of each world.

Bowser Jr. appears in "Super Mario Galaxy", where he helps his father in battling Mario. He also has three worlds of his own.

Bowser Jr. makes an appearance in "New Super Mario Bros. Wii" along with the Koopalings, where he appears on an airship (a type of flying ship).

Jr. appears in "Super Mario Galaxy 2", where he helps his father in battling Mario like in "Super Mario Galaxy".

He also appears in "New Super Mario Bros. U", along with the Koopalings and his father. He does the same in 'New Super Luigi U".

Bowser Jr. appears "Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury" as an ally to Mario to help him defeat Bowser in an enraged form where he cannot control himself.

Bowser Jr. also appears a lot in the "Mario" spin-off games. He appears in "" and "Mario Kart Wii". He also appears in some of the "Mario" sports games. He appears as a mini-boss in "Mario Party 9". He has his own space on the boards where players have to play a minigame with him. He appears in "Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games" along with its sequel "Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games", and "Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games". He appears in "" as a boss, and in "" as a boss in the Battle Ring. He has appeared in nearly every spin-off title since his introduction.


Matt Bloom

Matthew Jason Bloom (born November 14, 1972) is an American former professional wrestler and professional football player. He is works for the WWE. Bloom is the head trainer at the WWE Performance Center in Orlando, Florida.

Bloom is best known for his work with WWE as Prince Albert, Albert and A-Train from 1999 to 2004, and as Lord Tensai and Tensai from 2012 to 2014. He also wrestled in Japan from 2005 to 2012 with All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW), New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) and Pro Wrestling Noah (Noah) as . During his career, Bloom has held the GHC Tag Team Championship, IWGP Tag Team Championship and WWF Intercontinental Championship.









German invasion of the Netherlands

The Battle of the Netherlands was part of the German invasion of France and the Low Countries (Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands) during World War II. The battle lasted from 10 May 1940 until the main Dutch forces surrendered on the 14th. Dutch troops in the province of Zealand continued to fight the until 17 May, when Germany occupied the whole nation.

The Battle of the Netherlands was one of the first major uses of paratroopers to land near important targets before ground troops reached the area. The German "Luftwaffe" used paratroopers to capture several major airfields in the Netherlands.

The battle ended soon after the terrible bombing of Rotterdam by the German "Luftwaffe". The Germans threatened to bomb other large Dutch cities if Dutch forces refused to surrender. The Dutch surrendered to prevent other cities from being destroyed. The Netherlands was occupied by Germany until 1945.

Britain and France declared war on Germany in September 1939, after Germany invaded Poland. No major land attacks happened in Western Europe during the winter of 1939–1940. During this time, the British and French built up their forces to get ready for a long war, and the Germans occupied Poland. On 9 October, Adolf Hitler ordered plans for an invasion of the Low Countries. He wanted to use them as a base to attack Britain. He also wanted to prevent an attack by the Allied forces, which could threaten the Ruhr Area.

The Dutch were not ready to stop an invasion. When Hitler came to power, the Dutch had begun to re-arm, but more slowly than France or Belgium. Only in 1936 did the Dutch government start to increase their defense budget. Dutch governments did not see Germany as a military threat. Partly this was because they did not want to cause problems with an important trade partner. The Dutch did not criticize Nazi policies. The Dutch made strict budget limits in the Great Depression, which was hard on Dutch society. Hendrikus Colijn, the Dutch Prime Minister between 1933 and 1939, did not think Germany would go against Dutch neutrality and invade the Netherlands. Senior officers did not try to encourage improving military defence.

International stress grew in the late 1930s. Countries got concerned by the German occupation of the Rhineland in 1936; the "Anschluss" and Sudeten crisis of 1938; the German occupation of Bohemia and Moravia in 1939; and the Italian invasion of Albania in the spring of 1939. 

These events made the Dutch government be more careful, but they limited their reaction as much as they could. Their most important reaction was to get 100,000 men ready to fight in April 1939. After the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 and the start of the war, the Netherlands hoped to remain neutral. The Netherlands had been neutral during the First World War 25 years earlier.

The Dutch army was ready by 24 August and set up in trenches. Large amounts of money (almost 900 million guilders) were spent on defence. It was very difficult to obtain new weapons. The Dutch had ordered some equipment from Germany, which delayed deliveries. A lot of the money was used for the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia). A lot was spent on a plan to build three battle cruisers.

The Low Countries' position between France and Germany made the area a good route for either side to attack the other. In a 20 January 1940 radio speech, Winston Churchill tried to get the Dutch to join with the British. Both the Belgians and the Dutch refused, even though Belgium had learned about Germany's plans to attack. The Allies planned to attack Germany in the summer of 1941. The French thought about going against the neutrality of the Low Countries and attacking them if they had not joined the Allies before then. If Germany attacked the Netherlands, the Allies would have to go through Belgium. The Allies also worried that the Netherlands might allow a German army into Belgium through the southern part of their lands.

The Dutch government never decided what to do. Most of the ministers wanted to resist an attack. A minority refused to become a German ally. The Dutch tried to organize a peace settlement between the Allies and Germany.

After the German invasion of Norway and Denmark, followed by a warning by Japan that a German attack on the Netherlands was going to happen, the Dutch military knew they would have to fight. They started to prepare for war. Dutch border troops were put on alert. Reports of a Fifth Column (enemy agents acting in a country) in Scandinavia caused fears that the Netherlands also had German agents and traitors. The Dutch prepared for attacks on airfields and ports.

The Dutch hoped to avoid a war. On 10 April, Britain and France again asked the Dutch to enter the war on the Allies' side. Again, the Dutch refused. On 19 April, the Netherlands declared a state of emergency. Most civilians thought their country might not have a war. 

In the Netherlands, a good defence was possible. The land helped the defender, and there was a strong industrial base, including an arms industry. The Wehrmacht lacked equipment and training, but the Dutch army was very weak. 

The Germans had better equipment than the Netherlands. The German army had tanks and dive bombers (such as the Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka"). The Dutch army's armoured forces were only 39 armoured cars and five tankettes, and an air force of biplanes. The Dutch military had not got much new equipment since before the First World War. During the 1920s, the Dutch government limited their defense budget because of an economic recession that lasted from 1920 until 1927. In that decade, only 1.5 million guilders per year was spent on equipment. Only in February 1936 was a bill passed creating a special 53.4 million guilder defence fund. The lack of trained troops or good weapons made it hard to make the Dutch forces larger. There was just enough artillery for the larger units. Light infantry battalions were spread all over the country to delay enemy movement.

They had many pillboxes - about two thousand. .Modern large fortresses like the Belgian fortress of Eben Emael did not exist. The only modern fortification was the one at Kornwerderzand.

Total Dutch forces were 48 regiments of infantry and 22 infantry battalions for border defence. In comparison, Belgium had 22 full divisions and 30 divisions when smaller units were included.

After September 1939, the Dutch tried to improve the situation, but with little result. Germany delayed its deliveries of weapons. France did not want to sell weapons to an army that would not take its side. The Dutch could not get weapons from the other possible source, the Soviet Union, because the Dutch did not recognize their communist government.

Other countries had good armoured forces. The Dutch Army had two groups of armoured cars, each with a dozen vehicles; A single platoon of five Carden-Loyd Mark VI tankettes was all the armour they had.

The Dutch Artillery had 676 howitzers and field guns: 310 Krupp 75 mm field guns; 52 105 mm Bofors howitzers, the only really modern pieces; 144 obsolete Krupp 125 mm guns; 40 150 mm sFH13's; 72 Krupp 150 mm L/24 howitzers and 28 Vickers 152 mm L/15 howitzers. As antitank-guns 386 Böhler 47 mm L/39s were available, but there were not enough. There were another three hundred old "6 Veld" (57 mm) and "8 Staal" (84 mm) field guns. Only eight of the 120 modern 105 mm pieces ordered from Germany had been delivered at the time of the invasion. Most artillery was horse-drawn.

The Dutch Infantry had about 2,200 7.92 mm Schwarzlose M.08 machine guns, and 800 Vickers machine guns. Many of these were in the pillboxes; each battalion had a heavy machine gun company of twelve. The Dutch infantry squads had a light machine gun, the M.20 Lewis machine gun of which about 8000 were available. This weapon often jammed and it was not good for attacks. Most Dutch infantry had the Dutch Mannlicher rifle. This weapon had been used for over 40 years, and it was out of date, but the Dutch military did not have the money to replace it. There were only six 80 mm mortars for each regiment. This made it hard for the Dutch infantry to fight.

Despite the Netherlands having the company of Philips, one of Europe's largest producers of radio equipment, the Dutch army mostly used telephones. Only the Artillery had been given 225 radio sets.

After the German attack on Denmark and Norway in April 1940, when the Germans used large numbers of airborne troops, the Dutch were worried about a similar attack. To stop this type of attack, five infantry battalions were put at the main ports and airbases, such as The Hague airfield of Ypenburg and the Rotterdam airfield of Waalhaven. These were given AA-guns, two tankettes and twelve of the 24 operational armoured cars. The Dutch put 32 hospital ships throughout the country and fifteen trains to help make troop movements easier.

The Dutch air force had 155 aircraft: 28 Fokker G.1 twin-engine destroyers; 31 Fokker D.XXI and seven Fokker D.XVII fighters; ten twin-engined Fokker T.V, fifteen Fokker C.X and 35 Fokker C.V light bombers, twelve Douglas DB-8 dive bombers (used as fighters) and seventeen Koolhoven FK-51 reconnaissance aircraft. 74 of the 155 aircraft were biplanes. Of these aircraft 125 worked. 

The air force school used three Fokker D.XXI, six Fokker D.XVII, a single Fokker G.I, a single Fokker T-V and seven Fokker C.V, along with several training airplanes. Another forty aircraft were the marine air service along with about an equal number of reserve and training craft.

There was a Dutch military aircraft industry, consisting of Fokker and Koolhoven. However, the Dutch military could not afford new planes.

The Dutch Army was poorly equipped. It was also poorly trained. There was little experience leading forces bigger than the battalion level. From 1932 until 1936, the Dutch Army did not hold summer field exercises to save money. Also, soldiers lacked many skills. Until 1938, those who joined only served for 24 weeks, just enough to receive basic infantry training. That same year, service time was increased to eleven months. There were not many professional military staff. In 1940 there were only 1206 professional officers.

Most available time was spent constructing defences. During this period, munition shortages limited live fire training, and units were not organized. In May 1940, the Dutch Army was not ready for battle. It could not do a major attack or move around on the battlefield.

German generals and Hitler thought that the Dutch military was weak. They expected that Holland could be captured in about three to five days.

In the 17th century, the Dutch Republic had developed a defensive system called The Dutch Water Line. It could protect all major cities in the west by flooding part of the countryside. In the early 19th century this line was shifted to the east, beyond Utrecht. Later, fortresses were built. This new position was called the New Holland Water Line. The line was given new pillboxes in 1940. The line was below sea level. This allowed it to be flooded with a few feet of water. This was too shallow for boats, but deep enough to turn the soil into mud. The area west of the New Holland Water Line was called Fortress Holland. The eastern side was covered by Lake IJssel and the southern side protected by three rivers. It was expected to hold out for a long period of time.

Some people thought the defences would protect the country for three months without any Allied help. Before the war the intention was to move to this position, and hope that Germany would only travel through the southern provinces on its way to Belgium and leave Holland undamaged. In 1939, this attitude made it impossible to negotiate with the Allies about defence. Proposals by German diplomats that the Dutch government would accept a German advance into the country were rejected.

From September 1939 a more easterly Main Defence Line was built. This second defensive position was dug on orders from the commander of the Field Army, Lieutenant-General Jan Joseph Godfried baron van Voorst tot Voorst. This line was extended by a southern part between the river Maas and the Belgian border. In the south the goal was to delay the Germans so that the French could advance.

Fourth and Second Army Corps were put at the Grebbe Line; Third Army Corps were put at the Peel-Raam Position with the Light Division behind it to cover its southern side. Brigade A and B were positioned between the Lower Rhine and the Maas. First Army Corps was a reserve in the Fortress Holland, the southern edge of which was protected by another ten battalions and the eastern side by six battalions. All these lines were protected by pillboxes.

In front of this Main Defence Line was the "IJssel-Maaslinie". It had pillboxes and fourteen "border battalions". Late in 1939 General Van Voorst tot Voorst wanted to use the rivers as a defence. He proposed a battle at the crossing sites near Arnhem and Gennep to force the German divisions to use a lot of their energy before they reached the Main Defence Line This was deemed too risky by the Dutch government and General Reijnders. The Government wanted the army to resist at the Grebbe Line and Peel Raam Position, and then fall back to the Fortress Holland. Reijnders was not given full military authority in the defence zones. On 5 February 1940 he resigned because of these disagreements with his superiors. He was replaced by General Henry G. Winkelman who decided that in the north the Grebbe Line would be where the battle was to be fought, partly because it would be easier to counterattack.

During the Phoney War the Dutch said they were neutral. In secret, the Dutch military talked with both Belgium and France to organize a common defence to a German invasion. This failed because of differences of opinion about which strategy to follow.

Belgium, though it said it was neutral, had made arrangements for working with Allied troops. This made it more difficult for the Dutch to make arrangements with the Belgians. He did not approve of a plan by Van Voorst tot Voorst to occupy the "Orange Position to form a continuous line with the Belgian lines.

When Winkelman took over command, he proposed on 21 February that Belgium would set up a connecting line with the Peel Raam Position along the Belgian part of the Zuid-Willemsvaart. The Belgians refused to do this unless the Dutch sent in new troops to Limburg. The Dutch had no forces available. Repeated Belgian requests to defend the Orange Position were refused by Winkelman.

The Belgians decided to withdraw, in an invasion, all their troops to their main defence line, the Albert Canal. This created a gap forty kilometres wide. The French were asked to fill it. The French Commander in Chief General Maurice Gamelin was more than interested in including the Dutch in his continuous line. But he would not stretch his supply lines that far unless the Belgians and Dutch would take the allied side. When both nations refused, Gamelin said he would occupy a position near Breda.

Winkelman decided on 30 March to abandon the Peel-Raam Position after a German attack. He withdrew his Third Army Corps to the Linge. This Waal-Linge Position was planned to have pillboxes; the budget for pillboxes was increased with a hundred million guilders.

In addition to the Dutch Army and the German 18th Army, a third force would operate on Dutch soil: the French 7th Army. Both the French and the Germans saw the possibility of a surprise attack. For the Germans this would mean bypassing the Antwerp-Namur line. Rapid forces were needed to protect important locations from the enemy. Long before the Germans did, the French had thought of using airborne troops to do speedy attacks. A naval division and an infantry division were set to go to Zealand to block the Western Scheldt against a German crossing. General Gamelin feared the Dutch would surrender or accept German protection. He reassigned the former French strategic reserve, the 7th Army, to go in front of Antwerp. Together with the two divisions in Zealand, seven French divisions were to be used.

Although the French troops would have more motorised units than the Germans, they could not hope to reach their places in the battle before the enemy did. Their only prospect of beating the Germans was using rail transport. They would have to build up their forces near Breda. They needed the Dutch troops in the Peel-Raam Position to delay the Germans for a few extra days to allow French forces to move in and dig trenches. These consisted of the reconnaissance units of the armoured and motorised divisions, with armoured cars. These would be put into two task forces.

During the plans for "Fall Gelb" the idea of leaving the Fortress Holland alone was considered. The first plan of 19 October 1939 suggested a full occupation. In the version of 29 October it was proposed to limit the invasion to a line south of Venlo. In the "Holland-Weisung" (Holland Directive) of 15 November it was decided to conquer the entire south, but in the north to advance no further than the Grebbe Line, and to occupy the Frisian Isles. Hermann Göring wanted a full capture of Holland as he needed the Dutch airfields to use against Britain. He was afraid the Allies might reinforce Fortress Holland and use the airfields to bomb German cities and troops. A swift defeat would also free troops for other sectors. On 17 January 1940 they decided to conquer all of the Netherlands. However, few units were available for this task. The main effort of "Fall Gelb" would be made in the centre, between Namur and Sedan. The attacks at central Belgium and the attack at Fortress Holland were only tricks.

Although both the 6th and 18th Army were in place at the Dutch border, the first, larger force would move south of Venlo to Belgium. This would leave just the 18th Army under General Georg von Küchler to attack the Dutch main force. Of all German armies in the battle, this was the weakest. It contained only four regular infantry divisions and three reserve divisions. They had few professional officers and little fighting experience. Like the Dutch Army, most soldiers (88%) lacked training. The seventh division was the 526th Infantry Division, which lacked combat training. The German divisions had 17,807 men, fifty percent larger than their Dutch counterparts. They had twice their firepower, but even so they did mot have enough men for a successful attack. To add more men, the only German cavalry division, the 1st "Kavalleriedivision" was told to capture the weakly defended provinces east of the river IJssel. A landing in Holland near Enkhuizen was to be attempted, using barges. As both efforts were unlikely to do well, the regular divisions were reinforced by the "SS-Verfügungsdivision" and "Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler". These would attack the Dutch fortified positions. Still this added only 1 division to the equation.
To ensure a victory the Germans used new methods. The Germans had trained two airborne divisions. The first of these, the "7. Flieger-Division", was paratroopers; the second, the 22nd "Luftlande-Infanteriedivision", of airborne infantry. The airborne troops would capture the airfields around The Hague, and then capture the government, together with the Dutch High Command and Queen Wilhelmina.

The plan, "Fall Festung", had been developed by Hitler. If the first attack did not succeed, the bridges at Rotterdam, Dordrecht and Moerdijk would be captured to allow a mechanised force to move in. This force was to be the German 9th Panzer Division. They were the only German armoured division having just two tank battalions. The total number of tanks in the group was 141. The plan was for them to go through a gap in the Dutch lines created by the 254th and 256th Infantry Divisions. Then they would join up with them, forming the "XXVI. Armeekorps". At the same time, an attack would be made against the Grebbe Line in the east by the 207th and 227th Infantry Divisions, united to form "X. Armeekorps", to fight the Dutch Army. The plan was to force the Dutch back to the east front of the Fortress Holland or beyond. If the Dutch did not surrender on the first day, the Eighteenth Army would attack Fortress Holland on the third day from the south.

The German people and troops disliked the idea of going against Dutch neutrality. The Germans said the invasion was to stop the Allies from occupying the Low Countries. Some German officers did not like the Nazi government and were also unhappy with the invasion.

One of them was Colonel Hans Oster, a German intelligence officer. In March 1939 he began to pass information to his friend, a Dutch military officer in Berlin Major Gijsbertus J. Sas. This information included the German attack date. Sas informed the Allies. Sas knowing the date of the attack on Denmark and Norway was not noticed. Though he said a German armoured division would try to attack the Netherlands and that there was a plan to capture the Queen, the Dutch defence plan was not changed. On 4 May Sas warned that an attack was coming soon. When in the evening of 9 May Oster phoned his friend saying the attack would be soon, the Dutch troops were put on alert. Oster was a leader of the German resistance from 1938 to 1943, and was one of those hanged after the 20 July 1944 bomb plot to kill Hitler.

On the morning of 10 May 1940, Germany attacked the Netherlands, Belgium, France and Luxembourg.

In the night the Luftwaffe flew into Dutch lands. One group, "Kampfgeschwader 4" (KG 4), attacked the Dutch airfields. Led by "Oberst" (Colonel) Martin Fiebig, KG 4 attacked the naval airfield at De Kooy, destroying 35 aircraft. Fiebig was shot down and spent five days as a Dutch prisoner of war. KG 4 also attacked Amsterdam-Schiphol, where the Dutch lost a third of their medium bombers, and The Hague airfields where KG 4 destroyed half of the 21 defending fighters. KG 4 lost 11 Heinkel He 111 bombers on 10 May and three Junkers Ju 88s; KG 30 and 54 another nine bombers. "Jagdgeschwader 26" (JG 26) and "Zerstörergeschwader 26" (ZG 26) shot down 25 Dutch aircraft for a loss of nine fighters, with Albert Kesselring's "Luftflotte 2" destroying 41. The Dutch were left with just 70 aircraft by the end of the day. They continued to fight the "Luftwaffe", shooting down 13 German fighter aircraft by 14 May.

Paratroopers were landed near the airfields. Dutch anti-aircraft batteries shot down numerous Ju 52 transport planes. German Ju 52 losses in the battle were about 250 planes.
The attack on The Hague was a failure. The paratroopers did not capture the main airfield at Ypenburg in time for the airborne infantry to land in their Junkers. Five Landsverks, assisted by machine guns, destroyed the eighteen Junkers, killing many troops. When the airstrip was blocked by wrecks the remaining planes landed in meadows or on the beach, spreading out the troops. The small airfield of Ockenburg was captured by the Germans.

The airfield of Valkenburg was occupied. The landing strip was still being built and the water level had not yet been lowered: planes landing there sank in the soft soil.

None of the airfields could be used to land new troops. The paratroopers occupied Ypenburg but did not get into The Hague. They were blocked by Dutch troops. Early in the afternoon they were fired on by three Dutch artillery batteries. Dutch artillery drove away the German troops from the other two airfields.

The attack on Rotterdam was much more successful. Twelve Heinkel He 59 seaplanes landed in the city. They captured the Willemsbrug, a bridge over the Nieuwe Maas. At the same time the military airfield of Waalhaven was attacked by airborne forces. Here an infantry battalion was close to the airfield. The paratroopers landed near them. A fight followed. The first group of Junkers suffered no losses and the transports continued to land. In the end the Dutch defenders were defeated. The Germans occupied IJsselmonde.

The Royal Netherlands Navy's torpedo boats "Z5" and "TM 51" attacked the "Willemsbrug". The destroyer HNLMS "Van Galen" sailed up the Nieuwe Waterweg to bomb the airfield, but the ship got bombed. A plan to send the gunboats HNLMS "Flores" and HNLMS "Johan Maurits van Nassau" was stopped.

At the Island of Dordrecht the Dordrecht bridge was captured but the Dutch fought on. The long Moerdijk bridges were captured and fortified on the southern side. 

Generally German soldiers behaved in a civilised manner towards the Dutch population, buying food at the shops.

After the failed assaults on the bridges, the German divisions began crossing over the rivers IJssel and Maas. The first attacks were destroyed by fire from the pillboxes. At most places, bombing destroyed the pillboxes and the infantry divisions crossed the river by building pontoon bridges. At Arnhem, "Leibstandarte Der Fuehrer" led the attack and advanced to the Grebbe Line, followed by "207. Infanteriedivision". 
A withdrawal was planned for the first night after the invasion, in the darkness. Due to the rapid German advance a quick retreat was ordered at 06:45. The corps joined "Brigade G", six battalions already occupying the Waal-Linge line.

The Light Division, based at Vught, was the only force the Dutch Army had that could move about. Its withdrawal had been done a day early. Its regiments had reached the Noord river in the evening.

On the evening of the 10th, around 22:00, French troops using Panhard 178 armoured cars started to arrive at the Dutch border. After them, the French 1st Mechanised Light Division moved forward. Attempts to get the French to move forward with the Dutch troops towards Noord-Brabant did not work well. When a first attack had been stopped, an attack at the Main Defense Line was postponed because most artillery had not arrived. In the early evening, they attacked even though there was only one 105 mm battery.

Colonel Schmidt at 20:30 ordered the Peel-Raam Position to be abandoned. He told his troops to go to the west at a new line at the Zuid-Willemsvaart canal. In the North, by the end of the day, "1. Kavalleriedivision" had reached the line Meppel–Groningen. They were delayed by Dutch teams blowing up 236 bridges. Dutch troop strength in that area was weak. In the south, the six border battalions in the province of Limburg delayed the advance of the German Sixth Army. Before noon Maastricht had surrendered. The Germans did not capture the main bridge intact. This delayed the crossing by the 4th Panzer Division until the next day.

On 11 May the Dutch commander General Winkelman had two goals. First of all he wanted to kill the German airborne troops. He thought that the German possession of the Moerdijk bridges would stop the movement of new Allied troops. The second goal was to help the French army to make a strong defensive line in North Brabant. Little was achieved this day. The attack by the Light Division against the airborne troops on IJsselmonde failed. The bridge over the river Noord was defended by the German paratroopers, and it was impossible to cross it. Several attempts to cross the river by boats were not that successful. At 10:15, the Light Division was told to join the Dutch troops on the Island of Dordrecht. After killing German troops on the Island of Dordrecht the division was to advance into IJsselmonde over the Dordrecht bridge to reach Rotterdam.

Earlier during the day, two attempts were made by Dutch battalions to attack the western side of the German line. The First Battalion tried to attack the bridge at Barendrecht into IJsselmonde. The second battalion tried to capture more land. Although its crossings were successful, the first battalion was attacked by the Germans. The second battalion had many men being taken prisoner.

Then a French force and another Dutch border battalion attacked the southern Moerdijk bridge, but the armoured cars were bombed by German Stukas and had to retreat.

In Rotterdam, the Dutch failed to kill the German airborne troops from their bridge on the northern bank of the Maas. The two remaining Dutch bombers failed to destroy the "Willemsbrug". None of the attempts to kill the 1600 paratroopers and airlanded forces was successful.

In North Brabant, the situation got worse. The French commanders of the 7th Army had expected that Dutch fighting would give them four days to build up a defensive line near Breda. However, the best three divisions had been moved to the north and the remaining forces were retreating.

The withdrawal of the Peel Division from the Peel-Raam Position to the Zuid-Willemsvaart, a canal to the west, meant leaving behind their trenches and artillery for a totally unprepared line. The eastern bank of the canal was higher than the western bank, providing excellent cover for the attackers. One part of the canal, near Heeswijk, was left undefended; as this area contained a bridge which was not destroyed, the Germans were able to cross the canal around 13:00. A second crossing at Erp, led to a collapse of the line. By the end of the 11th, the Germans had crossed the Zuid-Willemsvaart at most places and the Peel Division had fallen apart. The French refused to advance further to the northeast than Tilburg, apart from some armoured cars that went as far as Berlicum.

Winkelman asked the British government to sent an Army Corps to add to allied positions in the area and bomb Waalhaven airfield.

Motorised elements of "SS Standarte "Der Fuehrer"" had reached the southernmost part of the Grebbe Line, in front of the "Grebbeberg", on the evening of the 10th. This Main Defense Line sector was protected by a line of outposts and two groups of infantry. At about half past three in the morning of the 11th, German artillery started bombing the outposts. At dawn, two battalions of "Der Fuehrer" attacked. As the German bombing had cut the telephone lines, no artillery could be requested by the Dutch defenders. The vegetation offered good cover for the attackers. At noon, the Germans broke a hole at the extreme north. By evening, all outposts were held by the Germans.

The commander of 2nd Army Corps, Major-General Jacob Harberts, did not realise that motorised SS troops had been involved in the attack. He thought that the outposts had surrendered to a small German force. He ordered a night attack by the single reserve battalion of 4th Division. This attack was abandoned. However, heavy Dutch artillery fire caused the Germans to abandon their plans for a night attack.

Meanwhile, in the North, "1. Kavalleriedivision" advanced through the province of Friesland, reaching Sneek in the evening. Most Dutch troops had been evacuated from the north.

On the morning of 12 May General Winkelman still had hope. He thought a defence line could be set up in North Brabant with the help of the French. He also expected that the Dutch could kill the German airborne forces. He was not aware of any danger to the Grebbe Line.

"9. Panzerdivision" crossed the Meuse in the early morning of 11 May. It could not advance quickly over roads filled with infantry. The armoured division was told to join with the airborne troops as soon as the Peel-Raam Position had been captured by the infantry forces.

Because the German 6th Army was threatening its right side and there was no time to prepare a defence line, Gamelin ordered the 7th Army to withdraw its left side. "2e Brigade Légère Mécanique" retreated to the south.

The 9th Panzer Division took Colonel Schmidt prisoner. The Dutch troops in the province lost their commander. Shortly after noon the German armoured cars got thirty kilometres more to the west, cutting off the Fortress Holland from the Allied main force. At 16:45 they had reached the bridges.

At 13:35 Gamelin ordered a withdrawal to Antwerp of all French troops in North-Brabant.

The Light Division tried to recapture the Island of Dordrecht by advancing with four battalions with little artillery support. On its left side, where there was almost no enemies, the advance went well. The battalion on the right side ran into an attacking German battalion. In the street fighting the German troops blocked the battalion. The other Dutch units then halted their advance around noon.

In the east the Germans attacked the Dutch defenders on the "Grebbeberg". After artillery bombing in the morning, at around noon a battalion of "Der Fuehrer" attacked the main line, occupied by a Dutch company. The Germans got through the thin line. A second German battalion then attacked to the north. Dutch artillery, though equal in strength to the Germans, did not fire on the enemy infantry. Due to a lack of numbers, training, and heavy weapons, the attacks failed against the well-trained SS troops. By the evening the Germans had the area under their control.

The Dutch knew that the forces on the Grebbe Line would not be strong enough to stop all attacks by themselves. They were intended to delay an attack long enough for new troops to be sent. In the late evening it was decided to attack from the north the next day.

In the North, the Wons position had a long perimeter of about nine kilometres, which gave space for retreating troops. On 12 May units with a combined strength of only two battalions were still present, so the line was weakly held. The first German unit to arrive broke through. This forced the defenders to withdraw to the Enclosure Dike. 
General Winkelman ordered the artillery in the Hoekse Waard to try to destroy the Moerdijk bridges and sent a team to Rotterdam to blow up the "Willemsbrug". He also ordered the oil reserves of Royal Dutch Shell at Pernis to be set on fire.

The Dutch government asked Winston Churchill for three British divisions to battle the Germans. The new prime minister said he did not have any reserves; however, three British torpedo boats were sent to Lake IJssel. The 2nd Welsh Guard battalion was prepared to be sent, but it was too late.

The German command was very happy with the day's events. Von Bock had requested another Army Corps. The French were retreating. von Bock decided to follow the French south towards Antwerp. Some forces would be sent to advance north with "254. Infanteriedivision", most of "9. Panzerdivision", and "SS Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler".

In the early morning of 13 May General Winkelman told the Dutch government that there were serious problems. On land the Dutch had been cut off from the Allied front and no major Allied landings were planned by sea. Without support, there was no hope of successful resistance.

German tanks might quickly pass through Rotterdam; Winkelman had already ordered all antitank-guns to be placed around The Hague, to protect the government. However, a collapse of the Dutch defences might still be prevented if attacks could seal off the southern front near Dordrecht and restore the eastern line at the Grebbeberg. Therefore, the cabinet decided to continue the fight, giving the general the power to surrender the Army when he thought he had to.

Queen Wilhelmina was brought to safety; she left around noon from Hoek van Holland, where a British "Irish Guards" battalion was present, on "HMS Hereward", a British destroyer, and went to England. The previous evening, the Queen's only child and Princess Juliana, together with her husband and their children, had departed from IJmuiden on "HMS Codrington" for Harwich. As the Queen was part of the government, when she left, the cabinet had to whether to follow her or remain. After many discussions it was decided to leave also: the ministers sailed at 19:20 from Hoek van Holland on "HMS Windsor" to form a government in exile in London. Three Dutch merchant ships, escorted by British warships, transferred government gold and diamonds to the United Kingdom.

While two tank companies of "9. Panzerdivision" remained to pursue the French, the other four began to cross the Moerdijk bridge at 05:20. Two staff companies with tanks also went to the northern side. The Dutch attempted to block the German armour. At around 06:00 the last medium bomber, a Fokker T. V, dropped two bombs on the bridge. The one bomb that hit the bridge did not explode. The bomber was shot down. The Dutch tried to destroy the bridge by artillery fire, but the bridge was only slightly damaged. Attempts to flood the Island of Dordrecht failed. The Light Division tried to advance to the west. However, two of the four battalions could not recapture the suburbs of Dordrecht. When the other two battalions approached the main road, they were met by a few dozen German tanks. The battalions were hit by a Stuka bombing and they fled to the east. 47mm and 75 mm batteries halted the attack of the German tanks. The left part of the Light Division then withdrew to the Alblasserwaard at around 13:00. A tank company also tried to capture the Dordrecht, but it was ordered to retreat after heavy street fighting. in At least two Panzerkampfwagen IIs were destroyed and three tanks heavily damaged. All Dutch troops were withdrawn from the island in the night. German armoured forces advanced north over the Dordrecht bridge into IJsselmonde island. Three tanks, two PzKpfw. IIs and a Panzerkampfwagen III attacked the Barendrecht bridge into the Hoekse Waard. All of them were destroyed by a single 47 mm antitank-gun. Though the Germans did not make another attack, this area was abandoned by the Dutch troops.
In Rotterdam a last attempt was made to blow up the "Willemsbrug". Two Dutch companies attacked the bridge. The bridge was reached and the fifty German almost surrendered. However, the attack was stopped because of heavy fire from the other side of the river.

In the North, the commander of "1. Kavalleriedivision", Major General Kurt Feldt, had to go over the Enclosure Dike because of a lack of ships. The main fortifications contained 47 mm antitank-guns. There was no cover for any attacker. On 13 May the position was reinforced by a 20 mm anti aircraft battery. It had been Feldt's intention to destroy the position by mortars, but the train transporting it had been blocked on 10 May by a blown railway bridge at Winschoten. Several air attacks on 13 May had little effect. In the late afternoon five sections tried to attack under cover of an artillery bombing, but soon fled after being fired upon. In the East the Germans tried to attack the Grebbe Line by using the other division of X. AK, "227. Infanteriedivision". The line was in this area defended by the Dutch 2nd Infantry Division. Two German regiments were to attack. The "366. Infanterieregiment" was hit by Dutch artillery fire and had to withdraw. This led to the failure of the attack by "227 Infanteriedivision". 
On the south of the Grebbe Line, the Grebbeberg, the Germans were now using three SS battalions. During the evening and night of 12–13 May the Dutch had a dozen However, not all of these units could be put together to attack the main line. This Dutch attack was delayed for several hours. When it started in the morning of 13 May, it ran into an attack by two battalions of "Der Fuehrer". A fight followed in which the Dutch were beaten by the SS troops. Soon this resulted in withdrawal of the brigade. The Dutch lost when the Grebbeberg area was bombed by 27 Ju 87 Stukas. "207. Infanteriedivision" was sent into battle at the Grebbeberg. The first German attackers were stopped with serious losses. A second attack managed to get past the trench line, which then was captured after heavy fighting.

The Germans planned to attack and take the Rhenen line and the village of Achterberg. However, the Dutch had already disappeared. The Stuka bombing scared the reserves at Rhenen. In the morning these troops left the battlefield because of German fire. In the late afternoon most of 4th Infantry Division was fleeing westwards.

The German had expected that the Dutch would attempt to fill any gaps in the line. The Dutch planned to send two regiments of the Dutch 3rd Army Corps north to fill any gaps. Dutch command had lost control, so they could not get their defences set up again. A wide gap had appeared in the defences. At 20:30 Van Voorst tot Voorst ordered the three Army Corps to abandon the Grebbe Line and the Waal-Linge Position and to retreat.

Despite his loss of hope and the power he had been given to surrender the Army, General Winkelman avoided surrendering until he had to. He wanted to battle the German troops for as long as possible, to help the Allied war effort.

In the North, a German artillery bombardment of the Kornwerderzand Position began at 09:00. However, the German batteries were forced to move away after being fired on from the 15 cm. aft cannon of "Hr. Ms. Johan Maurits van Nassau". Feldt now decided to land on the coast of North-Holland. 

A few barges were found; only after the surrender was the crossing done. During this operation one barge sunk and the others got lost. Winkelman on 12 May ordered the defence of an "Amsterdam Position" along the North Sea Canal, but only weak forces were available. In the East, the field army withdrew from the Grebbe Line to the East Front. The new position had some problems. The flooding was mostly not yet ready and the earthworks had not yet been constructed.

On IJsselmonde the German forces prepared to cross the Maas in Rotterdam, which was defended by about eight Dutch battalions. Crossings would be attempted in two sectors. The main attack would take place in the centre of the city, with the German 9th Panzer Division advancing over the "Willemsbrug". Then "SS Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler" would cross. East of Rotterdam, a battalion of the 16th Infantry Regiment of "22. Luftlandedivision" would cross on boats. The Germans decided to use air support. "Kampfgeschwader 54", using Heinkel He 111 bombers, was shifted from Sixth to Eighteenth Army.
Generals Kurt Student and Schmidt wanted a limited air attack to temporarily stop the defences. However, "Luftwaffe" commander Hermann Göring, worried about his surrounded airborne troops, wanted a total bombing of Rotterdam.

At 09:00 a German messenger crossed the "Willemsbrug" to bring a message from Schmidt to Colonel Pieter Scharroo, the Dutch commander of Rotterdam, demanding a surrender of the city. If an answer had not been received within two hours, severe destruction would be done. Scharroo did not receive the message until 10:30. He did not want to surrender. He got a new message signed by Schmidt and that required an answer by 16:20. At 13:20 two groups of Heinkels arrived.

Schmidt ordered red flares to be fired to signal that the bombing was to be stopped, but only the squadron from the southwest stopped its attack, after their first three planes had dropped their bombs. The other 54 Heinkels dropped 1308 bombs, destroying the inner city and killing 814 civilians. The fires destroyed about 24,000 houses, making almost 80,000 people homeless. At 15:50 Scharroo surrendered to Schmidt in person. Göring had ordered a second bombing of the city to be carried out unless the whole of Rotterdam was occupied. When Schmidt heard the order, he sent a message at 17:15 claiming the city was taken, but this was not true. The bombers were called back just in time.

Winkelman at first intended to continue the fight. Bombings were not seen as a reason to surrender. The Hague could still fight off an armoured attack. He got a message from Colonel Cuno Eduard Willem baron van Voorst tot Voorst, the commander of the city of Utrecht, that the Germans demanded its surrender. Messages were dropped by planes saying that only surrender would stop the city from being destroyed. Winkelman thought the Germans would bomb any city offering any resistance, Since he was told to avoid suffering and since the Dutch military was weak, he decided to surrender. All army units were informed at 16:50 by of his decision and ordered to destroy their weapons and surrender to the nearest German units. At 17:20 the German envoy in The Hague was informed. At around 19:00 Winkelman gave a radio speech informing the Dutch people. This was also how the German command became aware the Dutch had surrendered.
On the morning of 14 May the commander of the Royal Dutch Navy, Vice-Admiral Johannes Furstner, left the country to continue the fight. Dutch naval vessels were generally not included in the surrender. Eight ships had already departed, some smaller vessels were sunk, and nine others sailed for England in the evening of 14 May. The "Hr. Ms. Johan Maurits van Nassau" was sunk by German bombers while crossing.

The commander of the main Dutch naval port of Den Helder, Rear-Admiral Hoyte Jolles, decided that his base, with 10,000 troops, its own air service, and land defences, should continue to fight. Winkelman had to convince him to obey the surrender order. Large parts of the Dutch Army did not want to accept the surrender.

At 05:00 on 15 May a German messenger reached The Hague, inviting Winkelman to Rijsoord for a meeting with von Küchler to make a written surrender. Winkelman surrendered the army, naval and air forces. The document was signed at 10:15

The province of Zealand not part of the surrender. Fighting continued alongside French troops. The Dutch forces in the province had eight full battalions of army and naval troops. They were commanded by Rear-Admiral Hendrik Jan van der Stad. The area was under naval command because of the naval port of Flushing on the island of Walcheren. The northern islands of the province were almost undefended apart from some platoons.

The defence of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, the Dutch part of Flanders, was left to the Allies. The main Dutch army forces were in Zuid-Beveland east of Walcheren. They tried to block this route to Vlissingen. Zuid-Beveland was connected to the coast of North Brabant. At its eastern end, Bath Position was defended by an infantry battalion. At its western end was the Zanddijk Position, occupied by three battalions.

On 10 May three French motorised units went to North Brabant. From 11 May the area was reinforced by two French infantry divisions: the "60e Division d'Infanterie", a B-class division, and the newly formed naval "68e Division d'Infanterie". Part of their equipment was brought by ship. Most troops remained where two of the eight Dutch battalions and two border companies were located. Only two French regiments were sent to the northern bank. On 13 May the Dutch troops were placed under French command and "68e Division d'Infanterie" was transferred to the 7th Army.

There was poor communications, misunderstandings and disagreements between the Dutch and the French. The Dutch considered the Bath and Zanddijk Positions to be defendable because of the flooding. However, the French commander General Pierre-Servais Durand wanted his troops hidden behind obstacles.

On the evening of 13 May one regiment, the "271e" of "68e Division d'Infanterie", occupied the canal through Zuid-Beveland. The "224e" of "60 Division d'Infanterie" stayed in the area separating the island of Walcheren from Zuid-Beveland. The Allied forces were not grouped together enough, which enabled the Germans to defeat them even though they had less men.

On 14 May the Germans had occupied almost all of North Brabant. "SS-Standarte Deutschland" reached the Bath Position. This cut off the retreat of "27e Groupe de Reconnaissance de Division d'Infanterie", which was destroyed defending Bergen-op-Zoom. The morale of the defenders of the Bath Position weakened by news that Winkelman had surrendered. Many decided that it was useless that Zealand kept fighting as the last remaining province. An artillery bombing on the position in the evening of 14 May caused the commanding officers to leave. Then the troops left.

In the morning of 15 May "SS-Standarte Deutschland" approached the Zanddijk Position. A first attack around 08:00 on the northern sector was stopped, as the Germans had to advance over a narrow dike. However, the bombing caused the battalions in the main positions to flee, and the entire line was abandoned around 14:00.

On 16 May "SS-Standarte Deutschland" approached the canal through Zuid-Beveland. The French "271e Régiment d’Infanterie" was partly dug in and helped by three Dutch battalions. An air bombing was done that morning. The first German crossings around 11:00 led to a complete collapse of the defence. On 16 May the island of Tholen was captured. On 17 May Schouwen-Duiveland was captured. The commanders of the Dutch troops on South-Beveland refused commands to attack the Germans. On 17 May a night attack at 03:00 failed. The Germans now demanded the surrender of the island. When this was refused they bombed Arnemuiden and Flushing. Middelburg, the province's capital city, was shelled by artillery, its inner city partially burning down. The heavy bombing made the French defenders lose hope. The Germans managed to capture a bridge around noon. The few Dutch troops on Walcheren, about three companies, stopped fighting. In the evening the Germans threatened to attack the French forces in Flushing, but most troops were evacuated over the Western Scheldt.

After North-Beveland had surrendered on 18 May, Zeeuws-Vlaanderen was the last remaining unoccupied Dutch territory. On orders of the French, all Dutch troops were withdrawn on 19 May to Ostend in Belgium. On 27 May all of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen had been occupied.

Following the Dutch defeat, Queen Wilhelmina established a government-in-exile in England. The German occupation began on 17 May 1940. It would be five years before the entire country was liberated. Over 210,000 Dutch people became victims of war, including 104,000 Jews and other minorities, who were killed because of their race (genocide). Another 70,000 more Dutch people died from poor nutrition or limited medical services.



Earl Sweatshirt

Thebe Neruda Kgositsile (born February 24, 1994), better known by his stage name Earl Sweatshirt, is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, and record producer. Kgositsile was originally known by the stage name Sly Tendencies. He released his first mixtape, "Kitchen Cutlery","" on MySpace in 2008. He changed his name to Earl Sweatshirt when Tyler, the Creator invited him to join Odd Future in late 2009.

He gained popularity and critical praise for his first mixtape, "Earl", which released on March 31st, 2010."" Shortly after its release, his mother sent him to a boarding school in Samoa for at-risk teens for a year and a half. He was unable to record music when he was there. He later returned to Los Angeles in February 2012, just before his eighteenth birthday. Kgositsile rejoined Odd Future and started producing new music. He released his first studio album "Doris" in August 2013.

His second studio album, "I Don't Like Sh**, I Don't Go Outside", was released on March 23rd, 2015."" His third album, "Some Rap Songs," was released on November 30th, 2018."" His fourth album, "Sick!", was released on January 14th, 2022. His projects have all received widespread critical praise. 

He is currently signed to Columbia Records, as well as his independent label Tan Cressida.


Edward Teller

Edward Teller (January 15, 1908 – September 9, 2003) was an American theoretical physicist. He was born in Budapest, the capital city of Hungary. At the time Hungary was called Austria-Hungary. He is known as "the father of the hydrogen bomb".

Teller's family was Jewish. Teller did not speak until he was three years old. He left Hungary in 1926. He moved to Germany. He went to the University of Karlsruhe there. He then went to the University of Leipzig. He got his Ph.D. in physics there. In 1933 Adolf Hitler became the leader of Germany. Teller decided to move so the Nazis wouldn't kill him for being a Jew. In 1934 Teller moved to Copenhagen in Denmark. He joined the Institute for Theoretical Physics there. He married Augusta Maria Harkanyi. Then Teller moved to London in England to teach at University of London.

In 1935 he moved to the United States to become a professor at George Washington University. In 1941 he stopped working at George Washington University. He joined the Manhattan Project in 1942. At the time it was called the Manhattan Engineering District. With Stanislaw Ulam and other immigrant scientists he invented the fusion bomb.

In 1952 Teller opened Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory at the University of California with Ernest Lawrence. In 1953 Teller became a professor at the University of California. He was on the cover of "TIME magazine" in 1957. From 1958 to 1960, Teller worked as the director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. He was the associate director until 1977. The laboratory is now called Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory.

In 1979 Teller had a heart attack. He blamed it on Jane Fonda. In 1982 he became a member of the White House Science Council.

Teller was given one of the first Ig Nobel Prizes for Peace in 1991. In 2000 Teller's wife died.

In 2001 a book Teller wrote about his life, "Memoirs: A Twentieth Century Journey In Science And Politics", was published by Basic Books. Teller was 93.

He died from a stroke on September 9, 2003 at Stanford University.

Teller was an agnostic. He also was a Republican.

Galahad

Sir Galahad is a character from Arthurian legend- a knight of the Round Table and the son of Sir Lancelot. Legend says that Galahad searched for and later found the Holy Grail earning him the name 'The Grail Knight', as he was the only one on earth considered by God worthy of finding the Holy Grail. It is said that when he drank from the grail, he was surrounded by light and ascended to heaven. His uncle was king Pelle and Galahad's father was actually Sir Lancelot. 

Galahad was also very noble and loyal, and was renowned as a talented swordsman. Galahad was known as the perfect knight.

Chesapeake Bay Bridge

The Chesapeake Bay Bridge (called the Bay Bridge by locals) is a bridge that crosses Chesapeake Bay, on the eastern coast of the United States. The bridge is long. It serves as a connecting route between the eastern and western shores of Maryland. The bridge was named after William Preston Lane Jr., the governor at the time that the building of the bridge was ordered.

A toll of six dollars is charged on the one-way toll side of the bridge (the side opposite of the Eastern Shore). Although for taxi services the fee is anywhere from 25 to 30 dollars.

The bridge was first proposed for building in 1938. Building did not begin until 1947 because of the United States' involvement in World War II. The bridge was finally opened to traffic on July 30, 1952. Later in 1967, because traffic on the bridge was increasing, another side for the bridge was proposed. The proposal was agreed to, and funded by the state of Maryland. Building began once again in 1969 and was completed in 1973.

Today the Bridge is considered one of the most dangerous bridges in the world because of the accidents that have happened on it.


Ritwik Ghatak

Ritwik Kumar Ghatak (4 November 1925 – 6 February 1976) was a Bengali Indian filmmaker, scriptwriter and actor. He was born in Dhaka in East Bengal. He wrote his first play, " Kalo sayar", in 1948. In 1951, Ghatak joined the Indian People's Theatre Association (IPTA). Ghatak acted in the 1950 film "Chinnamul". In 1952 Ghatak completed his first movie, "Nagarik". It was not released until 1977. Ghatak wrote the 1958 Hindi film "Madhumati" with Rajinder Singh Bedi.

Ghatak married Surama Devi. He had a son, Ritaban Ghatak, and two daughters with her.

Ghatak died in 1976 in India from tuberculosis.

Personality

Personality is a term that describes the traits a person shows consistently, such as how they think, act and respond to emotions as well as their likes and dislikes. 

These traits are shown at different times and in different situations. Understanding someone’s personality may allow you to predict their behavior in many situations. Predictability makes it possible to explain and understand behavior. A person's personality can often suggest their internal thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. Intrapersonal functioning is a term used to describe the stable processes that underlie these thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. Gordon Allport defined personality as a "dynamic organization inside a person, of psychophysical systems that create the person's characteristic patterns of behavior, thoughts and feelings."

Ming-Na Wen

Ming-Na Wen (born November 20, 1963) is a Chinese actress. She is known for doing the voice of Fa Mulan in the Disney film 1998 "Mulan" and "Mulan II". She played Jing-Mei Chen in "ER". Wen plays Agent Melinda May in "Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D".

Wen was born in Hong Kong. Her name means "enlightenment". When she was a child she moved to the United States. In 1995 she married Eric Michael Zee. She lives with him in California.


Bay Bridge

Bay Bridge may refer to:


August Alsina

August Anthony Alsina Jr. (born September 3, 1992) is an American singer. He was born in New Orleans. His mother moved him to Houston after Hurricane Katrina happened. Alsina moved to Atlanta to start his musical career. He released his first mixtape, The Product in 2012. He released two other mixtapes in the same year. In August 2013 he was signed to Def Jam Recordings. His first EP "Downtown: Life Under the Gun" was released by Def Jam that month. It reached number 68 in the Billboard 200. His first album, "Testimony", was released in 2014. The album was a tribute to his friend who died in 2010.


Representational state transfer

Representational state transfer (REST) is a software architecture that was made to guide the development of the World Wide Web. Systems which implement REST are called 'RESTful' systems. REST documents a way for computer systems to communicate with each other using HTTP requests.



Julie Christmas

Julie Christmas (born December 25, 1975) is an American musician. She was the lead singer of the rock band Made Out of Babies and the metal band Battle of Mice. Christmas released three albums with Made Out of Babies. They broke up in 2012. Christmas sung on "Generation of Ghosts" on Mouth of the Architect's 2008 album "Quietly". In 2010, Christmas released her first solo album "The Bad Wife" on CD and vinyl.

Adobe Premiere

Adobe Premiere was a video editing software. It was replaced by Premiere Pro in 2002.

Bernie Kopell

Bernard Morton "Bernie" Kopell (born June 21, 1933 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles as Siegfried in "Get Smart" and as Dr. Adam Bricker ("Doc") in "The Love Boat" from 1977 to 1986.


Margery Mason

Margery E. Mason (27 September 1913 – 26 January 2014) was a British actress and director. She is known for her roles in "The Princess Bride" and in "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire". 

Ahmed Fouad Negm

Ahmed Fouad Negm (22 May 1929 – 3 December 2013) was an Egyptian vernacular poet. Negm is well known for his work with Egyptian composer Sheikh Imam, as well as his patriotic and revolutionary Egyptian Arabic poetry. Negm has been called "a bit of a folk hero in Egypt" or "el-Fagommi".

Negm was born in Sharqia, Egypt on 22 May 1929.

In 2007, Negm was chosen by the United Nations Poverty Action as Ambassador of the poor. Negm won the 2013 Prince Claus Award for ‘Unwavering Integrity’.

On 3 December 2013, Negm died at the age of 84 in Cairo, Egypt from a long-illness, aged 84.


Paul Aussaresses

Paul Aussaresses (7 November 1918 – 4 December 2013) was a French Army general. He fought during World War II, the First Indochina War and Algerian War. His actions during the Algerian War, and later defense of those actions, caused considerable controversy. He was perhaps best known for wearing an eye patch. 

Aussaresses was badly criticized in 2000, when in an interview with the French newspaper "Le Monde", he defended the use of torture during the Algerian war. He repeated the defense in an interview with CBS's "60 Minutes", further arguing that torture ought to be used in the fight against Al-Qaeda.

Aussaresses died on 4 December 2013 from natural causes in Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines, France, aged 95.


William Ramsay

Sir William Ramsay KCB FRS (William Ramsay, Jr.; 2 October 1852 – 23 July 1916) was a Scottish chemist. Ramsay discovered the noble gases. He also helped discover several elements that are on our periodic table today. He received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1904 "in recognition of his services in the discovery of the inert gaseous elements in air" (along with Lord Rayleigh).

Ramsay was born in Glasgow on 2 October 1852. He was a nephew of the geologist Sir Andrew Ramsay. His father, William, Sr., was a civil engineer. His mother was Catherine Robertson. He studied at Glasgow Academy, at the University of Glasgow and at University of Tübingen in Germany. 

Ramsay went back to Glasgow as an assistant at the Anderson College. He found a job as Professor of chemistry at the University College of Bristol in 1879.

On the evening of 19 April 1894 Ramsay was at a lecture given by Lord Rayleigh. Rayleigh had noticed a difference between the density of nitrogen made by chemical synthesis and nitrogen isolated from the air by removal of the other known components. He named the gas responsible for this difference "argon". 

He was working with Morris Travers, when he discovered neon, krypton, and xenon. He also isolated helium. In 1910, he also created and characterized radon. In 1904, Ramsay received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry.

Ramsay discovered all six elements that are in the noble gas group on the periodic table.

Ramsay was married to Margaret Buchanan in 1881. They had one daughter, Catherine, and one son, William George. William George died when he was 40. 

Ramsay lived in Hazlemere, Buckinghamshire until his death. He died in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire on 23 July 1916 from nasal cancer (nose cancer). He died at the age of 63. He was buried in Hazlemere Parish church.

The Sir William Ramsay School in Hazlemere is named after him.


Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff

Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff, Jr. (30 August 1852 – 1 March 1911) was a Dutch chemist. He was the first winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1901. van 't Hoff studied the active principles of chemical kinetics, chemical equilibrium, osmotic pressure, and stereochemistry.

Julius Lothar Meyer

Julius Lothar von Meyer (August 19, 1830 – April 11, 1895) was a German chemist. He worked with Dmitri Mendeleev and helped him draw up the first periodic table of chemical elements. He also worked with Robert Bunsen.

Battle of Aachen

The Battle of Aachen was a major battle of Second World War. It was fought by American and German forces in and around Aachen, Germany, between 2–21 October 1944. The city was part of the Siegfried Line, the main defence line on Germany's western border. The Allies had hoped to capture it quickly and move into the Ruhr area.

Most of Aachen's civilian population was moved out before the battle began. Much of the city was destroyed and both sides had heavy losses. It was one of the largest urban battles fought by U.S. forces in World War II.

It was the first city in Germany to be captured by the Allies. The battle ended with a German surrender, but their defense slowed down Allied plans to advance into Germany.

By September 1944 the Western Allies had reached Germany's western border. It was protected by the Siegfried Line. On 17 September, British, American, and Polish forces launched Operation Market Garden.

This was an attempt to get around the Siegfried Line by crossing the Lower Rhine River in the Netherlands. The failure of this plan, and a supply problem caused by the long distances, stopped the Allied movement toward Berlin.

German dead and wounded in France had been high. Field Marshal Walter Model said his 74 divisions had the strength of just 25. The Western Allies' supply problems gave the Germans time to rebuild their strength. In September, new troops were sent to the Siegfried Line. The total was 230,000 soldiers, including 100,000 new soldiers.

At the start of the month the Germans had had about 100 tanks in the West; by the end they had 500. As men and equipment were moved into the Siegfried Line they were able to establish a depth of .

The Allied force, under the command of General Dwight D. Eisenhower, wanted to capture the Ruhr. It was Germany's main industrial area.

General George S. Patton's Third Army was ordered to occupy the French region of Lorraine. General Courtney Hodges's First Army was ordered to attack near Aachen.

Hodges had at first hoped to go around the city. He thought it was only defended by a small group of troops which would surrender once they were cut off.

The beautiful, old city Aachen was not an important military target, as it did not do much war production. Its population of around 165,000 had not been bombed by the Allies.

It was an important symbol to the Nazi regime and the German people. It was the first German city threatened by an enemy during the Second World War. It was also the historic capital of Charlemagne, founder of the "First Reich". The city was very important to the Germans.

The city's defenders fought on home ground for the first time; one German officer said, "Suddenly we were no longer the Nazis, we were German soldiers."

Aachen was protected by the Siegfried Line, a system of pillboxes, forts, and bunkers protected by anti-tank obstacles and barbed wire. In several areas, German defenses were over deep. It was the strongest defence ever built.

Learning from their experiences on the Eastern Front, the Germans put their defences in the center of towns. They used narrow streets to make it hard for enemy armored vehicles to move around

Even though the troops defending Aachen and the Ruhr were of low quality, the fortifications protecting Aachen and the Ruhr were a major problem for the
American forces. Getting through Aachen was seen as important, because the land beyond Aachen was flat, and easy for the motorized Allied armies to travel on.

Fighting around Aachen began in the second week of September. The city was defended by the 116th Panzer Division, under the command of General Gerhard von Schwerin.

The closeness of Allied forces had caused the majority of the city's government officials to leave before the citizens were moved out. (For this, Hitler had all Nazi officials who had fled sent to the Eastern front as privates.) von Schwerin wanted to surrender the city to Allied forces. However, on 13 September, before he could surrender, he was ordered to launch a counterattack against American forces southwest of Aachen. He attacked with his panzergrenadier forces.

The German general's attempt to surrender the city made Adolf Hitler, ordered the general's arrest. He was replaced by General Gerhard Wilck. The United States' VII Corps continued to try to get past German defenses, despite the fighting on 12–13 September.

Between 14–16 September the US 1st Infantry Division advanced against strong defenses and attacks. Eventually, they had a circle around half the city.

This slow advance stopped in late September, due to the supply problem, and the sending of fuel and ammunition for Operation Market Garden in the Netherlands.

In October, Aachen's defense was assigned to General Friedrich Köchling's LXXXI Corps. These forces, along with the attached 506th Tank Battalion and 108th Tank Brigade, had 20,000 men and 11 tanks. Köchling was also promised a new 116th Panzer Division and the 3rd Panzergrenadier Division, with 24,000 troops.

The 183rd Volksgrenadier Division and 49th Infantry Division defended the northern approaches. The 12th Infantry Division was positioned to the south.

On 7 October, the 1st SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler Panzer Division were sent to defend Aachen.

Although new troops continued to arrive, the 12th Infantry Division had lost half its combat strength between 16–23 September, and the 49th and 275th Infantry Divisions had had to be given time to rest.

While German infantry divisions had a strength of 15,000–17,000 soldiers at the start of World War II, this had been reduced to a size of 12,500. By November 1944, the average strength of a division was 8,761 men.

To cope with the troop shortages, the Volksgrenadier divisions were created in 1944. Their average total strength was just over 10,000 men per division. Although about a quarter of these were experienced veterans, two-quarters were new soldiers and sick people while the rest were from the Luftwaffe and Kriegsmarine.

These divisions often received the newest small-arms, but they lacked artillery and motorization. The 183rd Volksgrenadier Division had not had time to train as a unit. The 246th Volksgrenadier Division was in a similar situation. Many of its troops had fewer than ten days of infantry training. All of these weaknesses of the troops were made up for by the strong fortifications surrounding Aachen.

The task of capturing Aachen was given to General Charles H. Corlett's XIX Corps' 30th Infantry Division and Joseph Collins' VII Corps' 1st Infantry Division.

General Leland Hobbs' 30th Infantry Division would be assisted by the 2nd Armored Division, which would try to go the 30th Division's hole in the Siegfried Line. Their sides were protected by the 29th Infantry Division.

In the south, 1st Infantry Division was supported by the 9th Infantry Division and the 3rd Armored Division. These divisions took in a large number of new men.

By 1 October over 70% of the men of General Clarence Huebner's 1st Infantry Division were new troops. The last two weeks of September were spent giving these men training in fighting and weapons training.

The plan called for both infantry divisions to avoid street fighting in Aachen. The plan was for the two divisions to encircle the city. Then a small force would capture it while most of the US forces moved east.

Although American units were usually able to get new troops quickly, the replacements rarely had enough training. Many junior officers were lacked tactical and leadership abilities. Some tank drivers had never even driven a car before. Some tank commanders had to teach their men how to load and fire their tank guns in the field before missions.

The US system meant that new troops reaching the front lines were not properly trained for combat. Sometimes half of a unit's replacements would become dead or wounded within the first few days of combat.

These losses required more troops to be brought into the fighting. A battalion of the US 28th Infantry Division was sent against Aachen to help the US 1st Infantry Division during 18–21 October.

These forces were supported by the Ninth Air Force, which knew where 75% of the pillboxes were. They planned an opening bombing using 360 bombers and 72 fighters. New aircraft would be used for a second attack, which included napalm.

With the Germans having few anti-aircraft guns and severely limited support from the Luftwaffe, Allied forces controlled the skies over Aachen.

For six days before the American attack allied artillery bombed German defenses around Aachen. Although bombing German LXXXI Corps to stop all movements of troops and supplies, it did not harm the pillboxes and strongpoints.

The opening air bombing on 2 October also did little damage to German defences. The 450 aircraft did not hit any German pillbox. Their targets had been hidden by thick smoke from the Allied artillery. After the aircraft finished their bombing, the artillery fired 18,696 shells.

The 30th Infantry Division moved forward on 2 October. They used artillery to destroy German pillboxes. It took thirty minutes to capture a pillbox. Heavy fighting had not been expected, and one group lost 87 troops in an hour; another lost 93 out of 120 soldiers to a German artillery strike.

The attackers were slowly able to cross the Wurm River. They attacked German pillboxes with flamethrowers and explosives. By the afternoon of 2 October, the 30th Infantry Division had got past German defenses and reached the town of Palenberg.

Here, US soldiers had to fight to get to each house. (Private Harold G. Kiner was awarded the Medal of Honor for throwing himself on a German grenade saving the lives of two soldiers).

Fighting in the town of Rimburg was terrible. American armour could not cross the Wurm River, and it could not support infantrymen who were attacking the Germans. The 30th Infantry Division destroyed 50 German pillboxes on the first day.

The division's advance was helped by the 29th Infantry Division's attacks. The Germans thought that the 29th Division's attacks were the main attack.

On the night of 2 October, the German 902nd Assault Gun Battalion was ordered to attack the 30th Infantry Division. Allied artillery made the German attack not start on time. The German attack failed.

American armor could help with the advance on 3 October. The US attacks were stopped by German attacks. Rimburg was captured on the second day. Fighting had also begun in the town of Übach. American tanks tried to attack the town. However, they could not move due to German artillery fire.

American artillery fire stopped the Germans from recapturing it. By the end of the day the 30th Infantry Division had around 300 dead and wounded.

German forces continued their attacks on Übach. This stopped American troops from advancing. On 4 October the Allies had only captured Hoverdor and Beggendorf. The Americans lost 1,800 soldiers in the past three days. On 5 October, the 119th Regiment of the 30th Infantry Division captured Merkstein-Herbach.

The next day the Germans attacked Übach, but the attack was not a success. The American had many more tanks. The Germans did not have extra troops. General Koechling did get a Tiger tank group to defend Aachen from the north.

The Germans attacked on 8 October with an infantry regiment, the 1st Assault Battalion, the 108th Panzer Brigade, and 40 armored vehicles. The left side of the attack cut off an American platoon. The Germans had many losses and the Americans were getting closer.

In the south, the 1st Infantry Division attacked on 8 October. They wanted to capture the town of Verlautenheide. A big artillery attack helped them to capture the town.

By 10 October, the 1st Infantry Division was in its planned position, where it could join with the 30th Infantry Division. The Germans attacked but they ended up with over 40 dead and 35 prisoners. Despite repeated German attacks, the 1st Infantry Division was able to capture the high land around the city.

On 10 October, the US threatened to bomb the city if it didn't surrender. The German commander refused to surrender. American artillery fired 5,000 shells and the city was bombed American aircraft.

American dead and wounded were increasing. This was caused by German attacks and the danger of attacking pillboxes. The Germans in the town of Bardenberg made pillboxes to defend themselves. American attackers pulled back and shelled the town with artillery.

On 12 October, the Germans attacked the American 30th Infantry Division. The Americans defended themselves with artillery fire and anti-tank defenses.

At the village of Birk, there was a fight between German tanks and a single American Sherman tank. Then the 2nd Armored Division arrived and the Germans were pushed out of the town.

The 30th Infantry Division had to defend itself over all the land they held. They were ordered to move south to join with the 1st Infantry Division. Two infantry battalions from the 29th were sent to join the 30th.

The same day (12 October), two German infantry regiments attempted to recapture. Both regiments were almost completely destroyed. Between 11–13 October Allied aircraft bombed Aachen.

On 15 October, the Germans again attacked the 1st Infantry Division. Although a number of heavy tanks managed to break through American lines, most of German forces were destroyed by artillery and airplanes.

On the next day, the Germans attacked with the 3rd Panzergrenadier Division. They had heavy losses and they had to stop the attack.

The 30th Infantry Division and parts of the 29th Infantry and 2nd Armored divisions moved southwards between 13–16 October. They could not get through German defenses and join up with allied forces to the south.

The Germans attacked with artillery. German tanks were hidden in houses. General Hobbs, commander of the 30th Infantry Division, tried to get around the German defenses. He attacked with two infantry battalions. The attack was a success. The 30th and 1st Infantry Divisions joined up on 16 October.

The fighting had caused American XIX Corps over 400 dead and 2,000 wounded, with 72% from the 30th Infantry Division. The Germans had 630 of their soldiers killed and 4,400 wounded; another 600 were killed in the 3rd Panzergrenadier Division's attack on the US 1st Infantry Division on 16 October.

The 1st Infantry Division had only a single regiment to capture the city. They attacked with machine guns and flamethrowers. Only by a few tanks and one howitzer were used in the attack.

The city was defended by 5,000 German troops, including navy, air force and city police. Most of these soldiers lacked experience and training. They were supported by a few tanks and assault guns. However, Aachen's defenders could use the narrow streets to defend the city.

The 26th Infantry's attack on 13 October was stopped by Germans firing from sewers and cellars. Sherman tanks could not move around in the narrow streets. The 26th Infantry Regiment used howitzers to destroy German fortifications. Sherman tanks were attacked by German anti-tank guns.

American tanks and other armored vehicles would shoot buildings to kill any defenders hiding inside. German infantry moved through sewers to attack Americans.

The Germans fought very hard. They attacked the Americans and used armor to stop American movement.

On 18 October, the 3rd Battalion of the 26th Infantry Regiment prepared to attack the Hotel Quellenhof. This was one of the last areas held by the Germans in the city. American tanks and other guns fired at the hotel. That night, 300 new soldiers of the 1st SS Battalion moved into the hotel. They stopped several attacks on the building.

A violent German attack managed to get past American infantry companies outside of the hotel. The Germans were then stopped by American mortar fire.

The Americans shelled German positions with guns. As well, a battalion of the 110th Infantry Regiment was used to fill gaps in the city. The new battalion was told on 19–20 October to attack the city.

On 21 October, soldiers of the 26th Infantry Regiment captured central Aachen. The Germans in the Hotel Quellenhof surrendered, ending the battle for the city.


Danilo Medina

Danilo Medina Sánchez (born November 10, 1951) is a Dominican politician. He was the President of the Dominican Republic from 2012 to 2020.


Sophia Bush

Sophia Bush (born July 8, 1982) is an American television and movie actress. She has also directed. She appeared in movies that include "John Tucker Must Die". Television programs in which she appeared include "Chicago Hope", "Chicago PD" and "One Tree Hill". Bush was born in Pasadena, California.

Hongkong Electric Company

Hongkong Electric Company (HKC; ) is an electricity generation company in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China.

The company was established on 1 December 1890 in British Hong Kong.


Joaquín Balaguer

Joaquín Antonio Balaguer Ricardo (September 1, 1906 – July 14, 2002) was the President of the Dominican Republic. He served three non-consecutive terms in that office. His first term was from 1960 to 1962, for his second term from 1966 to 1978, and again for his third and final term from 1986 to 1996. In 2000, Balaguer decided to seek an eighth term as president he lost the election.

On July 14, 2002, Balaguer died of heart failure at Santo Domingo's Abreu Clinic at the age of 95.


CLP Group

CLP Group (CLP; ) is an electricity company in Hong Kong. Their business are power generation, power transmission and electricity selling.

CLP Group was established in British Hong Kong in 1901 as China Light and Power Company Syndicate.


Juan Bosch

Juan Emilio Bosch Gaviño (30 June 1909 – 1 November 2001) was a politician, historian, short story writer, essayist, and educator. He was the first democratically elected President of the Dominican Republic in 38 years. He served as president from February through September of 1963. Before this, he had been the leader of the Dominican opposition in exile to the dictatorial regime of Rafael Trujillo for over 25 years. 

In 1934, he married Isabel García and had two children with her: Leon and Carolina. During Trujillo's dictatorship, Bosch was jailed for his political ideas, being released after several months. In 1938, Bosch managed to leave the country, settling in Puerto Rico.

Juan Bosch died on November 1, 2001 after a long hospitalization period in Santo Domingo. He was suffering from Alzheimer's disease and was hospitalized for respiratory failure. As a former President, he received the corresponding honors at the National Palace, and was buried in his hometown of La Vega.



Companhia de Electricidade de Macau

Companhia de Electricidade de Macau (CEM; ; English: Macau Electricity Company) is an electricity company in Macau, China. Its main business is power generation, power transmission, power distribution and electricity selling in Macau.

CEM was established in 1972 in Portuguese Macau.


Felicity Jones

Felicity Rose Hadley Jones (born 16 October 1988) is a British television, stage and movie actress. She starred in movies including "Brideshead Revisited" (2008), "Cemetery Junction" (2009) and "Rogue One" (2016). Jones was born in Birmingham. Sources differ on her year of birth, with some saying 1983 and others saying 1984.

Blindfold

A blindfold is a piece of cloth tied over a person's eyes. Sometimes a blindfold is made of material other than cloth. Blindfolds make it impossible to see. They are used for many different reasons: 

In art, Justice is sometimes made to look like a woman wearing a blindfold.


Everland

Everland is a theme park in Yongin, South Korea. It is about one hour's drive away from Seoul.

Everland is the largest theme park in South Korea. In 2012, it ranked 12th in the world by number of visitors. It had 6.6 million visitors according to "Travel + Leisure" magazine.

The park is 36 years old. It has many kinds of attractions, as well as a zoo called Safari World, and a water park named Caribbean Bay. Everland also has seasonal festivals throughout the year. Samsung Everland, a part of company of Samsung operates and manages the park and the surrounding area.



Caribbean Bay is South Korea's largest water park. It has outdoor and indoor parts, and only indoor parts, named 'Aquatic Center' opens throughout the year.

Home Bridge is a resort and cabin site near Everland. The wooden lodges are located 2,000 meters above sea level. 
Everland Speedway is South Korea's first racing track. It holds many racing events or competitions as well as provides guests to drive racing car.

Chalet Girl

Chalet Girl is a 2011 British-German-Austrian romance-comedy movie. It is about introducing people, romance and various family matters. Felicity Jones plays Kim Matthews. Brooke Shields plays Caroline. Sophia Bush plays Chloe.

This movie got mixed reviews from the critics. It was released in the United States in October 2011.

Christian Benítez

Christian Rogelio Benítez Betancourt (May 1, 1986 – July 29, 2013), also known as Chucho, was an Ecuadorian footballer who played as a forward for El Jaish of the Qatar Stars League at the time of his death.

On July 29, 2013, Benítez entered a hospital in Doha, Qatar because of a "strong pain" in his abdomen. He later went into respiratory failure. He died from complications leading to cardiac arrest at the age of 27.


Feature movie

A feature movie or feature film is a movie (also called a film or motion picture) with a run time long enough to be the main or only movie to fill a program at a movie theatre. A program is the set of shows that people are given for one admission ticket. A feature movie is therefore a movie that runs for long enough to be the main or only show in a program. According to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, American Film Institute, and British Film Institute, a feature movie runs for at least 40 minutes. The Screen Actors Guild states that it is 80 minutes or longer.

The majority of feature movies are between 70 and 210 minutes long. "The Story of the Kelly Gang" was the first feature movie based on length, and was released in Australia in 1906. The first feature-length movie based on a book was "Les Misérables" which was released in 1909.

Feature movie for children are usually between 70 and 105 minutes. Other early feature movies include a version of "Oliver Twist" (1912), "Richard III" (1912) and "From the Manger to the Cross" (1912).

The Invisible Woman

The Invisible Woman is a 2013 romance-drama movie. The movie is about a secret mistress of Charles Dickens. Ralph Fiennes plays Dickens. Kristin Scott Thomas plays Catherine Ternan and Felicity Jones plays Nelly Ternan. This movie will be released beginning in early 2014 in the United Kingdom and United States.

Joana Raspall i Juanola

Joana Raspall i Juanola (1 July 1913 – 4 December 2013) was a Spanish writer and librarian. She was born in Barcelona on 1 July 1913. Juanola died on 4 December 2013 from natural causes, aged 100.


High-pass filter

A high-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal above a certain value (cutoff frequency). The frequency component below that certain value will be suppressed to almost zero.


Low-pass filter

A low-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal below a certain value (cutoff frequency). The frequency component above that certain value will be suppressed to almost zero.


Band-pass filter

A band-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal within a certain range value, where it has its lower cutoff frequency and upper cutoff frequency. The frequency component outside that range of value will be suppressed to almost zero. In low frequency applications (up to 100 KHz), passive filters are generally constructed using simple R.C. networks while higher frequency filters (above 100 KHz) are usually made from R.L,C components.

Band-stop filter

A band-stop filter or band-reject filter is an electronic filter that blocks the frequency component of a signal within a certain range value, where it has its lower cutoff frequency and upper cutoff frequency. The frequency component outside that range of value will be passed on.

Steam drum

A steam drum is a part of a water-tube boiler. It is the place where water or steam gathers at the top of the boiler. It stores the steam produced in the water tube and it separates between steam and water mixture.

Water-tube boiler

A water-tube boiler is a type of boiler in which water circulates in tubes heated by fire from outside. The fire is produced by the fuel being burned inside the furnace for the boiler.



Coal burner

A coal burner is a device that burns fine coal which has been ground into smaller particles.



Superheater

A superheater is a device that changes saturated steam into dry steam. Dry steam is used in various industrial processes.


Heat exchanger

A heat exchanger is a device used to efficiently transfer heat from one fluid to another. The fluids may be separated to avoid direct contact or mixing.



Soot blower

A soot blower is a device used to remove soot that has accumulated on the furnace tube of a boiler during combustion. Steam or air can be used to blow the soot.


Marianne Muellerleile

Marianne Muellerleile (born November 26, 1948) is an American actress. She played Norma Bates (2000-2008) in the NBC soap opera "Passions". In "The Terminator" in 1984, she also played a woman with a name similar to Arnold Schwarzenegger's confidant and love interest. Muellerleile was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

State Grid Corporation of China

State Grid Corporation of China (SGCC; ) is a company owned by the government of the People's Republic of China which provides electricity to Northern China, Northeastern China, Eastern China, Central China and Northwestern China.


China Southern Power Grid

China Southern Power Grid () is a company owned by the government of the People's Republic of China. It provides electricity transmission and distribution to Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hainan and Yunnan provinces.


Excitation (magnetic)

Excitation is a process to create a magnetic field from electric current. This process is used in electric machines (generators or motors) whose rotor spins in a magnetic field. This magnetic field can come from a permanent magnet or field coils. In the case of electric machine with field coils, a current must flow to the coil to generate the magnetic field, so that the field coils can act as a "magnet", like in the case of electric machine with permanent magnet. The device in which excitation happens is called the exciter.

Switchgear

A switchgear is a combination of electrical switches, fuses or circuit breakers used to control, protect or isolate electrical equipment.

Jane Child

Jane Child (also Jane Richman; born February 15, 1967) is a Canadian musician. She sang the song "Don't Wanna Fall in Love" which was #2 on "Billboard" Hot 100 in spring 1990. She also sang other hits. Child was born in Toronto, Ontario.

Don't Wanna Fall in Love

"Don't Wanna Fall in Love" (also titled "Don't Want to Fall in Love") is a 1990 pop and romantic dance song. It peaked at #2 across the "Billboard" in spring of 1990. A new jack swing remix for the song was released later that year. The single is by Jane Child. This is the only Top 40 charting single from Child. In the United Kingdom, however, it peaked at only #22 due to Child not wanting to appear on a popular British television show for fear of being classified a sellout.

Ma Ying-jeou

Ma Ying-jeou (, born 13 July 1950) is a Taiwanese politician. He was the President of the Republic of China from 20 May 2008 to 20 May 2016.

Ma Ying-jeou was born in Kwong Wah Hospital in Kowloon, British Hong Kong on 13 July 1950. He studied in National Taiwan University, New York University and Harvard University.


British Hong Kong

British Hong Kong () was a colony and British Dependent Territory of the United Kingdom. It was Hong Kong when it was controlled as part of the British Empire. The British governed Hong Kong from 1841 to 1997, except for a small amount of time when the Japanese took over Hong Kong during World War II. During the First Opium War in 1841, the British took over Hong Kong Island. The British took over the Kowloon Peninsula in 1860 and the New Territories in 1898.

Hong Kong was given by the Qing Dynasty to the British Empire in 1841 under the Treaty of Nanking. Kowloon was added to the area of Hong Kong in 1860 under the Convention of Peking, and New Territories was added in 1898 under the Second Convention of Peking. In 1941–1945, Hong Kong was ruled by the Japanese Empire during World War II. In 1984, People's Republic of China and the United Kingdom agreed under Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong that Hong Kong was to be returned to China on 1 July 1997.

The Imperial Japanese occupation of Hong Kong, also known as “Hong Kong Fallen/The Fall of Hong Kong”, lasted from December 25, 1941 to August 15, 1945. The Hong Kong population called this event as the “Three years and eight months”.  On the same day when the Japanese troops attacked Pearl Harbor, the Japanese General Takashi Sakai lead his troops to attack Hong Kong from Bao’an Country. In December 25, 1941, the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong signed the surrender agreement to the Japanese in a hotel named “The Peninsula Hong Kong”. Nine days after the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, on August 15, 1945, the Emperor of Japan surrendered, signifying the end of the Second World War. At the end of August, the British once again took the control of Hong Kong back from Japan, and set up a marshal government.

During the Qing Dynasty, the British wanted to make Victoria Harbour the biggest harbour in East Asia. The British also wanted to grow its sea trade in the Far East through Victoria Harbor. 20 years after the British took over  Hong Kong, in 1861, this harbour was named Victoria Harbour, after the Queen of England at the time. The British also expanded the city on Hong Kong Island (香港岛). Hong Kong's economy today is very strong and always growing. It all would not have been possible, however, without the shipping, banking, merchants, and industrial growth from the British being there. The British Navy had an especially large role in shipping and protection of goods. During that time, the British Navy was stronger than any other navy in the world, and was able to protect the trade interests of the British Empire. After World War II had started, many merchant and banking businesses moved to Hong Kong, at the same time as the Industrial growth really took off.

The Independent Commission Against Corruption(ICAC/廉政公署) was established in February 15, 1974. It Is a system that is self-standing, Independent and controlled only by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the Hong Kong Disciplined Services. Hong Kong Disciplined Services is a system include Hong Kong Police Force, Immigration Department, Customs and Excise Department, Fire Services Department, Correctional Services Department, Government Flying Service, Civil Aid Service and Auxiliary Medical Service. In the 1960’s through the 1970s, the population of Hong Kong had increased immensely alongside the sudden explosion of Hong Kong’s economy. The sudden growth unfortunately led to widespread corruption. When British Hong Kong faced this issue, their government had to focus on maintaining the order of society. Since its inception in 1974, ICAC had used a “three-pronged approach” to tackle corruption in each of the three branches of government. Three pronged approach” is a unique strategy to fight corruption on three front, which is Operation Department (Law enforcement), Corruption Prevention Department (Prevention), and Community Relation Department (Education).

During the 1960s through the 1970s, the corruption in Hong Kong was a really serious issue because the population in Hong Kong had increased really quickly. Resource allocation was a huge part of corruption in the 1960s. For example, the lower class workers that worked for the government were often taken advantage of because their advantage would allocate a portion of their pay for themselves. This meant that lower class workers always only ever saw a fragment of their actual paycheck. 


Elizabeth Debicki

Elizabeth Debicki (August 1990) is an Australian actress. She played Jordan Baker in "The Great Gatsby". Her career began in 2011. The actress was born in Paris, France.

Bastille (band)

Bastille are an English Indie rock band. They started in London in 2010. In February 2013, they released a single called "Pompeii". It was number one in Scotland and Ireland. It reached number two in Italy and the UK. They released their first album, "Bad Blood", on 4 March 2013 in the United Kingdom. It went straight to number one in the UK Albums Chart. It was released in the US in September 2013. It reached number eleven in the United States' "Billboard" 200. It also reached the top ten in Ireland and Australia. 

Bastille have four members. Daniel Campbell Smith is the main singer. At first he was the only member. He writes all of the band's songs. Chris "Woody" Wood is the drummer. Will Farquarson plays bass, keyboards, and acoustic guitar. Kyle Jonathan Simmons plays keyboards, bass, and percussion. Charlie Barnes has been a touring member since 2015 and plays guitar and keyboards.

Current members

Touring members


Nicholle Tom

Nicholle Tom (born 23 March, 1978) is an American television program and movie actress. She played Maggie Sheffield in the sitcom "The Nanny" (1993 to 1999) and Ryce Newton in the "Beethoven" movies and related TV show. Her sister, Heather Tom, also acts. Nicholle Tom was born in Hinsdale, Illinois.

Bubba Ray Dudley

Mark LoMonaco (born July 14, 1971) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for Impact Wrestling where he competes under the ring name, Bully Ray.

He is also known for working with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) from 1995 to 1999 under the ring name Buh Buh Ray Dudley and for World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E) under the name, Bubba Ray Dudley. He is known for being one-half of the tag team, Dudley Boyz (also known as Team 3D) along with Devon.



Tori Kelly

Victoria Loren "Tori" Kelly (born December 14, 1992) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She won America's Most Talented Kids in 2004. She is known for voicing Meena the Elephant in "Sing" and "Sing 2". Kelly was born in Wildomar, California.

In 2010, she was on American Idol. She was not chosen as one of the final twenty-four contestants. On January 21, 2012, Kelly put a video on her YouTube channel of her singing "Thinkin Bout You" by Frank Ocean. A lot of people watched it. It now has over 17 million views. 

In May 2012, she released her first extended play "Handmade Songs". On November 1, 2013, Kelly sang at Ed Sheeran's concert at New York's Madison Square Garden. In an interview with BBC, Kelly said that Sheeran is "a really close friend". They have written a song together.

Kelly married basketball player André Murillo in 2018. She won two Grammy Awards in 2019.

On July 23, 2023, Kelly was hospitalized at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center after collapsing at a restaurant in Los Angeles. Blood clots had been found in her body around her vital organs, and she is currently receiving treatment.

Ella Eyre

Ella Eyre (born 1 April 1994) is a British singer-songwriter. She sang on Rudimental's single "Waiting All Night". It was number one in the UK Singles Chart in April 2013.

Eyre was raised in Ealing, London. She went to a private school called Millfield and the BRIT School for Performing Arts & Technology.

Eyre was signed to Warner/Chappell Music in July 2012.

Eyre sung on the fourth song on Naughty Boy's album "Hotel Cabana". The album was released in August 2013. The song, "Think About It", was then released as the album's fourth single on 17 November 2013. It reached number 78 in the UK Singles Chart.

On 19 October 2013 Eyre performed at the Music of Black Origin Awards. "Waiting All Night" was nominated for Best Song.

On 31 October 2013 "BBC Radio 1Xtra" played Eyre's first solo single, "Deeper". She was also interviewed by DJ MistaJam. On 22 November Eyre released the video for the single.

On 4 November 2013, British rapper Tinie Tempah released his second album "Demonstration". Eyre sung on the first song on the album, "Someday (Place in the Sun)".
She was nominated for MTV Brand New 2014 on 28 November 2013. Other nominees were The Vamps, Eylar Fox, and Banks. In December MTV started letting the public vote for the winner. In February MTV will tell the public who got the most votes.

On 5 December 2013 BBC put her on their Sound of 2014 list. She was also nominated for the 2014 Brit Awards Critics' Choice award.

Her first EP "Deeper" was released on 15 December 2013 by Virgin/EMI.

Eyre is dating John Newman.


Freud's psychoanalytic theories

Sigmund Freud (6 May 1856 – 23 September 1939) is considered to be the founder of the psychodynamic approach to psychology. Psychodynamic therapy looks closely at the unconscious drives that motivate people to act in certain ways.

The role of the mind is something that Freud repeatedly talks about because he believes that the mind is responsible for both conscious and unconscious decisions. Unconscious desires motivate people to act. The id, ego, and superego are three aspects of the mind which Freud believes makes up a person’s personality. “We are simply actors in the drama of our minds, pushed by desire, pulled by coincidence. Underneath the surface, our personalities represent the power struggle going on deep within us” (Cash, Psychology for Dummies).

Freud does not believe there is any supernatural force that affects the way we think or has pre-programmed us to behave in a certain way. His idea of the id explains why people act out in certain ways, when it is not in line with the ego or superego. Religion is an illusion and it derives its strength from the fact that it falls in with our instinctual desires." He believes that people rely on religion to give explanations for anxieties and tension they do not want to consciously believe in. The basis of Christian theology states, “God created humanity in his image” (Genesis 1:27), but Freud argues that humanity created God in their image. This reverses the idea of any type of religion because he believes that religion is constructed by the mind. The role of the mind is something that Freud repeatedly talks about because he believes that the mind is responsible for both conscious and unconscious decisions based on drives and forces. The idea that religion causes people to behave in a moral way is wrong according to Freud because he believes that no other force has the power to control the ways in which people act. Freud does a significant amount of research studying how people act and interact in a group setting. He believes that people act in different ways according to the demands and constraints of the group as a whole. In his book "Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego", he argues that the church and organized religion forms an “artificial group” which requires an external force to keep it together. In this type of group, everything is dependent on that external force and without it, the group would no longer exist. Groups are necessary in order to decrease the narcissism in all people by creating libidinal ties with others by placing everyone at an equal level. The commonness among different people with different egos allows people to identify with one another. This relates to the idea of religion because Freud believes that people created religion in order to create these group ties that they unconsciously seek for.

According to Freud’s theories of religion, the Oedipus complex is used in the understanding and mastery of religious beliefs. According to Freud, there is an unconscious desire for one’s mother to be a virgin and for one’s father to be an all-powerful, almighty figure. Freud’s interest in Greek mythology and religion greatly influenced his psychological theories. The Oedipus complex is when a boy is jealous of his father. The boy strives to possess his mother and ultimately replace his father as a means of no longer having to fight for her undivided attention and affection. Along with seeking his mother’s love, boys also experience castration anxiety, which is the fear of losing their genitalia. Boys fear that their fathers will retaliate and castrate them as a result of desiring their mother. While the Oedipus complex presents itself in males, females experience a different form of incestuous rivalry known as the Electra complex. Girls become jealous of their mothers and begin to feel desire towards their fathers. Females also experience penis envy which is the parallel reaction to the male experience of castration anxiety. Females are jealous of their fathers’ penis and wish to have one as well. Girls then repress this feeling and instead long for a child of their own. This suppression leads to the girl identifying with her mother and acquiring feminine traits.

According to Freud, the id is the part of the unconscious that seeks pleasure. His idea of the id explains why people act out in certain ways, when it is not in line with the ego or superego. The id is the part of the mind which holds all of humans' most basic and primal instincts. It is the impulsive, unconscious part of the mind that is based on desire to seek immediate satisfaction. The id does not have a grasp on any form of reality or consequence. Freud explains that the pleasure principle is controlled by the id because it makes people engage in need-satisfying behavior without any accordance to what is right or wrong. Freud compares the id and the ego to a horse and a rider. The id is compared to the horse, which is directed and controlled by the ego (the rider). This example goes to show that although the id is supposed to be controlled by the ego, they often interact with one another according to the drives of the id. 

Freud defines the id as: “The id, cut off from the external world, has a world of perception of its own. It detects with extraordinary acuteness certain changes in its interior, especially oscillations in the tension of its instinctual needs, and these changes become conscious as feelings in the pleasure-unpleasure series. It is hard to say, to be sure, by what means and with the help of what sensory terminal organs these perceptions come about. But it is an established fact that self-perceptions—coenesthetic feelings and feelings of pleasure-unpleasure—govern the passage of events in the id with despotic force. The id obeys the inexorable pleasure principle”.

The ego is responsible for creating balance between pleasure and pain. It is impossible for all desires of the id to be met and the ego realizes this but continues to seek pleasure and satisfaction. Although the ego does not know the difference between right and wrong, it is aware that not all drives can be met at a given time. The reality principle is what the ego operates by in order to help satisfy the id’s demands as well as compromising according to reality. The ego is a person’s “self,” composed of unconscious desires. The ego takes into account ethical and cultural ideals in order to balance out the desires in the id. Although both the id and the ego are unconscious, the ego has close contact with the perceptual system. The ego has the function of self-preservation, which is why it has to control the instinctual demands from the id. 

“The ego is first and foremost a bodily ego; it is not merely a surface entity, but is itself the projection of a surface. If we wish to find an anatomical analogy for it we can best identify it with the ‘cortical homunculus’ of the anatomists, which stands on its head in the cortex, sticks up its heels, faces backwards and, as we know, has its speech-area on the left-hand side. The ego is ultimately derived from bodily sensations, chiefly from those springing from the surface of the body. It may thus be regarded as a mental projection of the surface of the body, besides, as we have seen above, representing the superficies of the mental apparatus.”

The superego, which develops around age four or five, incorporates the morals of society. Freud believes that the superego is what allows the mind to control its impulses. The superego can be considered to be the conscience of the mind because it has the ability to distinguish between reality as well as what is right or wrong. Without the superego Freud believes people would act out with aggression and other immoral behaviors because the mind would have no way of understanding the difference between right and wrong. The superego is considered to be the “consciousness” of a person’s personality and can override the drives from the id. Freud separates the superego into two separate categories: the ideal self and the conscious. The conscious contains ideals and morals that exist within society that prevent people from acting out based on their internal desires. The ideal self contains images of how people ought to behave according to society's ideals.

Freud believed that the answers to what controlled daily actions resided in the unconscious mind, despite alternative views that all our behaviors were conscious. Notions of the unconsciousness, gaps in the consciousness, can be explained by other acts of which the consciousness affords no evidence. The unconscious mind positions itself in every aspect our life whether one is dormant or awake. It is more than just a habitat for our undesired memories, we are at loss to what truly exists here. Though unaware of the effect of the unconscious mind, it influences our actions. Human behavior should be understood by searching for analysis of mental processes in expressions of individual states. This explanation gives significance to verbal slips and dreams; they are caused by hidden reasons in the mind.

Verbal slips of the unconscious mind are referred to as Freudian slips. This is a term coined by Freud to explain a spoken mistake derived from the unconscious mind. Traumatizing information of thoughts and beliefs are blocked from the conscious mind. Slips expose our true thoughts stored in the unconscious. Sexual instincts or drives have deep roots in the unconscious mind. Instincts act by giving vitality and enthusiasm to the mind through meaning and purpose. The ranges of instincts are expressed them in two categories. Eros is the self-preserving life instinct containing all erotic pleasures. Thanatos is the death instinct, full of self-destruction of sexual energy. The main part of human behavior and actions is tied back to sexual drives. Since birth the existent of sexual drives can be recognized.

Freud’s theory of psychosexual development is represented in five stages. Each stage occurs within a specific time frame of one’s life. If one becomes fixated in any of the five stages, they will develop personality traits that coincide with the specific stage and its focus. 

The first stage is the oral stage. An infant is in this stage from birth to eighteen months of age. The main focus in the oral stage is pleasure-seeking through the infant’s mouth. During this stage, the need for tasting and sucking becomes prominent in producing pleasure. Oral stimulation is crucial during this stage; if the infant’s needs are not met they will be fixated in the oral stage. Fixation in this stage can lead to adult habits such as thumb-sucking, smoking, over-eating, and nail-biting. Personality traits can also develop during adulthood that are linked to oral fixation; these traits can include optimism and independence or pessimism and hostility.

The second stage is the anal stage, which lasts from eighteen months to three years of age. During this stage, the infant’s pleasure seeking centers are located in the bowels and bladder. Parents stress toilet training and bowel control during this time period. Fixation in the anal stage can lead to anal-retention or anal-expulsion. Anal retentive characteristics include being overly neat, precise, and orderly, while being anal expulsive involves being disorganized, messy, and destructive. 

The third stage in psychosexual development is the phallic stage. This stage begins at 3 years old and ends when the child reaches six years of age. The phallic stage focuses on the genitals as pleasure-seeking areas of the body. Boys in this stage experience the Oedipus complex, while girls experience the Electra complex. In both cases, the child develops incestuous feelings for the parent of the opposite sex. Children tend to develop characteristics of the same-sex parent during this stage. Fixation in the phallic stage has different personality traits depending on one’s gender. Males may take great pride in their masculinity and their sexuality, while women may become flirtatious and promiscuous. In both instances, these personality traits are a sign of low self-esteem and self-worth. 

The fourth stage is the latency stage which begins at the age of six and continues until the age of eleven. During this stage there is no pleasure-seeking region of the body; instead all sexual feelings are repressed. Thus, children are able to develop social skills, and find comfort through peer and family interaction. 

The final stage of psychosexual development is the genital stage. This stage begins at the age of eleven, lasts through puberty, and ends when one reaches adulthood at the age of eighteen. The onset of puberty reflects a strong interest in the opposite sex. If one does not experience fixation in any of the psychosexual stages, once he or she has reached the genital stage he or she will grow into a well-balanced human being.

Freud proposed a set of defense mechanisms in one’s body. These occur so one can hold a favorable or preferred view of themselves. When an event occurs that violates the preferred view of themselves, Freud states that it is necessary for the self to have some way to defend itself against this unfavorable event; this is known as defense mechanisms. Freud focuses on how the ego defends itself against internal events or impulses, which are regarded as unacceptable to one’s ego. These defense mechanisms are used to handle the conflict between the id, the ego, and the superego.

Freud noted that a major drive for people is the reduction of tension and the major cause of tension was anxiety. He identified three types of anxiety: reality anxiety, neurotic anxiety, and moral anxiety. Reality anxiety is the most basic form of anxiety and is based on the ego. It is typically based on the fear of real and possible events (for example, being bitten by a dog or falling off of a roof). Neurotic anxiety comes from an unconscious fear that the basic impulses of the id will take control of the person, leading to eventual punishment from expressing the id's desires. Moral anxiety comes from the superego. It appears in the form of a fear of violating values or moral codes, and appears as feelings like guilt or shame.

When anxiety occurs, the mind's first response is to seek rational ways of escaping the situation by increasing problem-solving efforts, and a range of defense mechanisms may be triggered. These are ways that the ego develops to help deal with the id and the superego. Defense mechanisms often appear unconsciously and tend to distort or falsify reality. When the distortion of reality occurs, there is a change in perception which allows for a lessening in anxiety resulting in a reduction of tension. Freud noted a number of ego defenses which were noted throughout his work. His daughter, Anna Freud, developed and elaborated on them. The defense mechanisms are as follows:


These defenses are not under our conscious control, and the unconscious will use one or more to protect the self from stressful situations. They are natural and normal. Without these, neurosis develops (such as anxiety states, phobias, obsessions, or hysteria).

Sigmund Freud was born to Jewish parents in a heavily Roman Catholic town. Freud desired to understand religion and spirituality and deals with the nature of religious beliefs in many of his books and essays. He regards God as an illusion, based on the infantile need for a powerful father figure. Freud believed that religion was an expression of underlying psychological neuroses and distress. In some of his writing, he suggests that religion is an attempt to control the Oedipal complex, as he goes on to discuss in his book "Totem and Taboo".

In 1913, Freud published "Totem and Taboo". It was an attempt to reconstruct the birth and the process of development of religion as a social institution. He wanted to demonstrate how the study of psychoanalysis is important in the understanding of the growth of civilization. This book is about how the Oedipus complex and incest taboo came into being and why they are present in all human societies. The incest taboo rises because of a desire for incest. The purpose of the totemic animal is not for group unity, but to re-enforce the incest taboo. The totemic animal is not a symbol of God, but a symbol of the father and it is an important part of religious development. Totemism originates from the memory of an event in pre-history where the male group members eat the father figure due to a desire for the females. The guilt they feel for their actions and for the loss of a father figure leads them to prohibit incest in a new way. Totemism is a means of preventing incest and as a ritual reminder of murder of the father. This shows that sexual desire, since there are many social prohibitions on sexual relations, is channeled through certain ritual actions and all societies adopt these rituals so that sexuality develops in approved ways. This reveals unconscious desires and their repression. Freud believes that civilization makes people unhappy because it contradicts the desire for progress, freedom, happiness, and wealth. Civilization requires repression of drives and instincts - such as sexual, aggression, and death instincts.

According to Freud, religion originated in pre-historic collective experiences that became repressed and ritualized as totems and taboos. He states that most, if not all religions, can be traced back to early human sacrifice - including Christianity, in which Christ on the cross is a symbolic representation of killing the father and eating the father figure. This is shown with ‘the body of Christ’, also known as Communion. In this work, Freud attributes the origin of religion to emotions such as hatred, fear, and jealousy. These emotions are directed towards the father figure in the clan from the sons who are denied sexual desires towards the females. Freud attributed totem religions to be a result of extreme emotion, rash action, and the result of guilt.

"The Psychopathology of Everyday Life" is one of the most important books in psychology. It was written by Freud in 1901 and it laid the basis for the theory of psychoanalysis. The book contains twelve chapters on forgetting things such as names, childhood memories, mistakes, clumsiness, slips of the tongue, and determinism of the unconscious. Freud believed that there were reasons that people forget things like words, names, and memories. He also believed that mistakes in speech, now referred to as Freudian slips, were not accidents but instead the “dynamic unconscious” revealing something meaningful.

Freud suggests that our everyday psychopathology is a minor disturbance of mental life which may quickly pass away. Freud believed all of these acts to have an important significance; the most trivial slips of the tongue or pen may reveal people's secret feelings and fantasies. Pathology is brought into the everyday life which Freud points out through dreams, forgetfulness, and parapraxes. He uses these things to make his case for the existence of an unconscious that refuses to be explained or contained by consciousness. Freud explains how the forgetting of multiple events in our everyday life can be consequences of repression, suppression, denial, displacement, and identification. Defense mechanisms occur to protects one’s ego so in "The Psychopathology of Everyday Life", Freud states, “painful memories merge into motivated forgetting which special ease” (p. 154)

Freud wrote "Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality", sometimes titled "Three Contributions to the Theory of Sex", in 1905. It explores and analyzes his theory of sexuality and its presence throughout childhood. Freud’s book describes three main topics in reference to sexuality: sexual perversions, childhood sexuality, and puberty. His first essay in this series is called "The Sexual Aberrations". This essay focuses on the distinction between a sexual object and a sexual aim. A sexual object is the object that one desires, while the sexual aim is the acts that one desires to perform with the object. 

Freud’s second essay was explained "Infantile Sexuality". During this essay he insists that children have sexual urges. The psychosexual stages are the steps a child must take in order to continue having sexual urges once adulthood is reached. 

The third essay Freud wrote described "The Transformation of Puberty". In this essay he examines how children express their sexuality throughout puberty and how sexual identity is formed during this time frame. 

Freud ultimately attempted to link unconscious sexual desires to conscious actions in each of his essays.

"The Interpretation of Dreams" is Sigmund Freud’s greatest published works because of the stage it set for his psychoanalytic work. During therapy sessions, Freud would ask his patients to talk about whatever would first come to their mind, usually their responses directly related to a dream. He then began to analyze their dreams, believing that this gave him access to their deepest thoughts. He also believed he could find links between his patients' current hysterical behaviors and past traumatic experiences. From here he began to formulate a book to allow others to understand dream interpretation, by using his theory of the unconscious. 

Freud believed that dreams were messages from the unconscious, masked as wishes controlled by internal stimuli. The unconscious mind plays the most imperative role in dream interpretation. In order to remain in a state of sleep, the unconscious mind has to detain negative thoughts and represent them in an edited form. In dreams, the unconscious makes an effort to deal with any conflict. 

Freud categorized dreams into different levels in order to better understand the unconscious as the primary standard for dream interpretation. The first level of dreams is the manifest content, which is the dream one remembers after waking up. But Freud believed no attention should be given to this level, because the unconscious mind produced the dream into a different meaning from its original. Latent content is the second level of dreams, which is the real dream amongst your unconscious thoughts. This is where the true meaning of the dream lies and turned into another sense to protect ourselves. In order for our dreams to convert from latent content to manifest content, four steps are required: condensation, displacement, symbolism, and secondary revision. A special focus on symbolism was emphasized in interpretation. Freud believed that dreams are highly symbolic, with an underlying principle meaning. Most of the symbolic stages focuses on sexually connotation (for example, a tree branch could represent a part of the male genitals). He also believed all human behavior originated from our sexual drives and desires.



Jazz (wrestler)

Carlene Denise Moore-Begnaud (born August 27, 1973) is an American professional wrestler and manager. She is better known by her ring name Jazz. She is best known for her time at World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). She was a two-time WWE Women's Champion. She has also wrestled for the National Wrestling Alliance, where she held the NWA World Women's Championship for over 900 days.

She is also known for her time in Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) and Impact Wrestling. She retired as a wrestler after Impact. 

She is married to Rodney Begnaud. He wrestled in WWE under the ring name Rodney Mack.



Lungs (album)

Lungs is the first album by Florence and the Machine. It was released on 3 July 2009. The album went straight to number two in the UK Albums Chart. The album was nominated for the 2009 Mercury Prize. It won the MasterCard British Album award at the 2010 BRIT Awards. It has sold more than three million copies around the world.

Three singles were released from "Lungs" before it was released. The first single from the album, "Kiss with a Fist", was released on June 9 2008. The second single, "Dog Days Are Over" was released 1 December 2008. On 22 June 2009 "Rabbit Heart (Raise It Up)" was released. It entered the UK Singles Chart at number nine. "Drumming Song" was released on 13 September 2009. On 16 November 2009 "You've Got the Love" was released. It reached number five in the UK Singles Chart. It was the album's fifth single. The last single released from the album was "Cosmic Love".

Boo (character)

Boos (japanese: テレサ "Teresa") is a fictional ghost that appears in the "Mario" and "Yoshi" series of video games. Boos first appeared in "Super Mario Bros. 3". In which they were named "Boo Diddley". Since then, they have become a common enemy in the "Mario" games. They sometimes appear as playable characters in the "Mario" spin-off games. In some games, such as "Paper Mario", they help Mario during his adventure. They are named after the sound that a person might make when they want to scare someone ("boo!"). 

Boos most often attack the player by sneaking up behind the player while the player's back is turned to them. When the player looks at them, they will hide their faces. They cannot be defeated without certain items or abilities. Boo are voiced by Sanae Susaki.


Priscilla Renea

Priscilla Renea (born September 14, 1988) is an American singer. She released the single "Dollhouse" in August 2009. The song, however, failed to chart on Billboard Hot 100. It did, though, become a mild hit. Her debut album, "Jukebox", got positive reviews from critics. "Jukebox" did not sell much beyond 3,000 copies in the United States, nor beyond 5,000 copies worldwide.

Renea was born in Vero Beach, Florida.

Marvins Room

"Marvins Room" is a song by Drake. It is a dark and emotional song that tells a story of heartache, and a failed relationship. It is off his album "Take Care". The song was so successful many artists made their own versions of the song, including: Lil Wayne, Chris Brown, JoJo, Trey Songz.

AMC (TV channel)

AMC is an American cable and satellite television channel. The channel is owned by AMC Networks and airs television shows and movies. AMC stands for American Movie Classics, which the channel was first based around. Currently is referred to as AMC due to its primary shift from only movies to also featuring television shows.

In 1984 on October 1, the AMC television channel aired for the time as a premium channel, showing only movie classics. It was on in the evening, and frequently held special events such as marathons and sometimes movies that generally were not aired as classics. In 1988 it had been recorded that AMC had 39 million subscribers in the United States, making it one of the most subscribed to premium channels. Two years later, in 1990, AMC started airing 24 hours, and had been picked up by most cable providers.

In 2002 AMC switched from airing only movie classics to modern movies of all genres and television shows. During this switch, they also started using a new logo "Story Matters Here". In 2004 AMC aired its first original show called "Film Fakers". After the success of the show, AMC started adding more original series and movies. The first original drama series, "Mad Men". The show received a large number of views and great feedback, resulting in a boom of original shows such as "Breaking Bad" and "Hell on Wheels".

After many television awards and critical acclaim from shows like "Mad Men" and "Breaking Bad", AMC started creating many more original shows. During this change, AMC created its well known slogan, "Story Matters Here". The slogan referred to the many shows that had created at the time, many of which had been praised great stories told through them. It was also during this time that "The Walking Dead" TV show was announced and aired. Currently it holds the title as most watched scripted cable show in history.

Currently, AMC has left its previous slogan for "Something More". It is continuing to air The Walking Dead, which is on its tenth season, along with new shows such as "Comic Book Men" and "Small Town Security". It has been announced that it will be picking up two new shows, "Halt & Catch Fire" and "Turn", two period dramas that will be airing in 2014. This year, the only new show is "Mob City", a scripted show about the Los Angeles Police Department.




AMCTV.com is an website provides special features for users, such as the airing schedule, blogs, videos, games.

This online feature allows viewers to see what date and time shows are airing, as well as when new episodes will be available. Another the schedule allows users to do, is know when AMC movies will be airing. A recently added ability allows users to see all of when a specific episode is going to be rerun.

Videos provides behind the scenes looks at many of the shows, as well as previews for upcoming episodes. Although the videos are usually fairly short, consisting around a three minutes long, they provide fans with small bits of special information that most viewers want to see.

The blogs consists of short stories about certain episodes for different shows. These blogs, are all made by AMC editors, and usually don't contain any useful information about new shows or episodes. This feature is the least used, and the least updated.

The category of games, is filled with trivia questions for selected shows, having the only possibilities being getting the answer right, getting it wrong, and running out of time on the timer. Recently, trivia questions for movies have been added in this category along with the television shows.


Birdman (rapper)

Bryan Christopher Williams, better known by his stage name Birdman (formerly Baby), is an American rapper and record executive. He is the co-founder of Cash Money Records with his brother. In 1997, he became part of a rap duo called Big Tymers. He was the mentor and father figure of Lil Wayne and is currently one of the richest rappers in the United States. Birdman has a reported net worth of $160 million in 2014.



Division of Lyne

The Division of Lyne is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It was set up in 1949, and named for Sir William Lyne, Premier of New South Wales at the time of Federation and a minister in early Australian governments. Lyne was asked by the first Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun to form the first Federal Government. Lyne did not have the support of other politicians, and so Edmund Barton became the first Prime Minister of Australia.

The division is on the Mid North Coast of New South Wales. It includes Taree, Wauchope, Laurieton, Wingham, Gloucester and parts of Kempsey.

Mark Vaile was the leader of the National Party, and Deputy Prime Minister. He retired in July 2008 which caused a by-election. Independent politician Rob Oakeshott won the seat, and after the 2010 election was one of the independents who supported a minority Labor government led by Julia Gillard. Oakeshott retired at the 2013 election. 


Third Power

Third Power is a album by DJ Drama. Its lead single is "Oh My." The song features Wiz Khalifa, Fabolous and Roscoe Dash.

Kim Bum-soo

Kim Bum-Soo (; born January 26, 1979) is a South Korean R&B and soul singer. His first successful song was "One Day", released in early 2000. He became most famous for his song "I Want to See", which was used on the soundtrack of the drama "Stairway to Heaven". He performed in the television program "I Am a Singer" in 2010.

When Kim was young, he sung in a church choir in Seoul. He wanted to become a Christian music singer. He went to Soongsil University. He was allowed in because they had a shortage of students. It was disappointing for him enter like that, but he trained a lot to win a scholarship. He wanted a scholarship because his family was having difficulties with money. After he failed to get the scholarship, a singer named Park Sun-Joo began training Kim to sing. By chance he was signed to an agency, and he recorded part of a new song by R.ef, which was a famous rave music group in those days.

Kim released his first album, "A Promise". However, after he appeared on a television program, his sales decreased because his appearance did not satisfy the public's expectations. His agency decided to promote him as a "faceless" singer instead. His songs were broadcast through radio and television again, but his name and appearance was never known to people.

After the success of the song "I Want to See", Kim wanted to appear on television again. He made his agency allow him once more to be broadcast. He appeared on a show called "Love Letter". He received good comments from the public. His song "I Want to See" was selected to be on the soundtrack of the drama "Stairway to Heaven". Kim has remained best known for this song. His later albums were not very successful. He served his military service from 2006 to 2008. After he was discharged from the army he released his sixth album, "The Practical Usage of Sadness". His seventh album, "Solista", was an ambitious work. The first part was released in 2010, but was not successful.

His appearance on the television show "I Am a Singer" was a turning point of his career. He became recognized again thanks to the popularity of the program. His song "Please Come Back", which was originally by Lee So-ra, maintained the first position in several websites for a month. Kim released his second part of "Solista" in 2011. It was popular, and Kim held several concerts to promote it.



Kalinga War

The Kalinga War fought between the Mauryan Empire and the state of Kalinga, an important kingdom that controlled the trade routes with Southeast Asia. Ashoka, the Mauryan king, wanted to capture Kalinga and so his huge army went 
there in 262 BC.

According to Megasthenes, the Greek historian at the court of Chandragupta Maurya, the ruler of Kalinga had a powerful army comprising infantry, cavalry and elephants. After the year, 150,000 men and women were deported from Kalinga and forced to work in clearing the wasteland for future settlements, and they were forbidden from ever returning to their old homeland. The descendants of the Kalinga people migrated later to Sindh. From there, they migrated to Persia, Mesopotamia, Egypt and Europe. Their descendants might be the Roma of Europe. 

Although he won the war, Ashoka realized the futility of war. He saw the bloodshed and suffering of the soldiers' families and vowed never to fight again. He converted to Buddhism and he dedicated his later life to help his subjects. He stopped conquering after he won a war. He wrote inscriptions for wanting that his son and grandson also never to think about war. He decided to observe Dhamma, a common code of conduct and was also inspired by the teachings of Buddha. He sent many Buddhist scholars to distant lands to propagate Dharma. It is said that one lakh people died in this war. Many pillar and rock edicts were written on the guilt that he felt after seeing the bloodshed.
For the last 30 years of his life, there were no more wars. He gave up the policy of DIGVIJAY (conquest of territories) and adopted DHARMAVIJAY(conquest by dharma). It is said Ashoka became a follower of Buddhism under the influence of Upagupta, a Buddhist teacher. 

Stereotype threat

Stereotype threat is the risk of confirming a negative stereotype about a group to which one belongs. Claude Steele introduced this idea in 1995. Stereotype threat may reduce the performance of people who belong to a negatively stereotyped group.

Claude Steele and Joshua Aronson did research for this theory of social psychology. They had African-American and European-American college students take a difficult verbal portion of the Graduate Record Examination. The design was a 2x3 factorial. The factors were the race of the participant (black or white) and the test description (diagnostic of intelligence, non diagnostic, or non diagnostic and challenging). Performance on the test was the dependent variable. 117 male and female participants were recruited from Stanford University. After comparing the results of the three groups, it was found that the differences were not very significant. However, in their second study results were significant.

A study on chess players shows that if females are made aware of the stereotype that females are worse at chess than males, they perform worse than the controls. Stone, Lynch, Sjomeling, & Darley did experiments in which white men performed poorly in sports if they are put in the condition that described the task as reflecting natural athletic ability compared to African-Americans. The African-Americans performed worse when the task was described as involving intelligence of the sport. Yeung & von Hippel did an experiment in which two groups of women went through a driving simulation. They told the women in the stereotype threat group that they were investigating why men were better drivers than women. That group was twice more likely than the control to hit a pedestrian.

Stereotype lift can increase a person's performance on a task when he/she is exposed to a negative stereotype of a group to which he/she does not belong.

Stereotype boost can increase an individual's performance on a task when he/she is exposed to a positive stereotype about his/her group.

Stereotype threat can have a bad effect on people. It has a negative effect on performance. It can also cause individuals to distance themselves from the stereotyped group to which they belonged, or lead them to dis-identify with the group that they experience stereotype threat. For example, a woman sees herself as "not a math person".

A simple way to stop these negative consequences is to tell people about stereotype threat.

Maslow's hierarchy of needs

Maslow’s hierarchy of needs was created by American psychologist Abraham Maslow in 1943. Maslow suggested that human needs could be put into five levels.

The levels are in order of importance.

Maslow says that these needs cause us to want or desire certain things. He says that there are many other things that influence our behavior. Just because we may want something, does not mean we will try to get it. There could be something else in the way that causes us to act differently.

The physiological level of Maslow's hierarchy includes basic human needs. These include water, breathing, food, and sleep. The physiological level contains the simplest needs. They are the most straightforward needs in the entire hierarchy. The human body tries to stay balanced inside. When a person is missing a physiological need, the body will naturally want the missing need. 

In simple creatures such as rodents, physiological needs may be the only needs that have to be met. However, in humans, this is only the base of the hierarchy. After physiological needs are met, there are four higher levels in the hierarchy. People are often not aware when their physiological needs are being met. However, when these needs are not met it becomes very obvious. For example, most humans do not think about each inhale and exhale they take. This satisfies their need to breathe. However, if the oxygen supply were cut off, all people would immediately become aware of the need to breathe. Physiological needs are important from the time a person is born and throughout their entire life.

The safety level of Maslow's hierarchy includes varying levels of safety. These include safety of the self, family, resources, jobs, health, and life. Both children and adults are very aware of their safety needs. Needs of safety are just as important as physiological needs. However, these needs deal more with the mind. They include having a sense of safety in the world. Every person’s sense of safety is different depending where they live.

Adults, much like children, prefer the world to be organized. This ensures a level of safety. However, some adults are too focused on organization. People may also attempt to control the world around them in all ways possible. Adults may have their safety needs met in a different way than children. Adults can feel that the money they earn from their job allows them to feel safe. This is because there is no need for financial worry when earning a steady income.

The love/belonging level of Maslow's hierarchy deals with various social needs. These include a need for friendship, family, and other types of group inclusion. Love/belonging also refers to personal relationships. These include romantic relationships. It is crucial that the physiological and safety needs of a person are met first. Then they can develop needs of love and belonging. Once basic needs are met, then a person can focus on their social needs. These needs change throughout the human lifespan. 

If belonging needs are not met then a person may feel depressed. The field of psychology focuses on this level of the hierarchy. In modern society, many people suffer because their needs of love and belonging are not met. This level also deals with sexual and intimate needs. Sex may or may not be part of this level of need. It can be considered necessary for love. Or it can be looked at as strictly physiological.

The esteem level is about how people need to feel that they play a part in the world. People want to feel that they have accomplished things that are valuable and important. They also want to feel independent, meaning that they can do things for themselves and do not need to depend on anybody else. 

We cannot be truly happy without becoming everything that we want to become. People have different things that they might want in their life that go along with this level. These needs do not show themselves until all of the needs in previous levels have been taken care of. For example, if a person is worrying about feeding themselves and needs to think about their physiological needs, then they will not be thinking about self-actualization and their life goals. Making sure they have food and a home is more important. Someone only reaches the self-actualization level once all the other levels are fulfilled.

Maslow explains that there are exceptions to the hierarchy. The most important are:


Maslow’s hierarchy suggests that all human behavior is motivated. However, this may not be true. Some human behavior may simply be reflexive. Maslow holds a biased opinion on the definition of self-actualization. Each individual may have a different opinion of what it means to self-actualize. Maslow believed that people who self-actualized had great characteristics. He believed these made them natural leaders and incredible people. This makes the goal of self-actualization nearly impossible for the average person. Maslow’s theory states that lower level needs must be met in order to meet needs in the higher levels. 

However, this is not always the case. It is possible for people who suffer from poverty and hunger to still feel love and belonging. Therefore, higher level needs can be met in some cases even if lower levels needs are neglected. Some theorists argue that the levels of the hierarchy are out of order in terms of necessity. Some needs that are higher in the hierarchy may actually appear and become important early in an infant or child’s life. Maslow’s hierarchy is hard to prove scientifically. It cannot be proved false easily. There may not be enough hard, scientific evidence to fully support Maslow’s hierarchy.

An extensive review of research based on Maslow's theory found little evidence for the ranking of needs that Maslow described, or for the existence of a definite hierarchy at all.

The order in which the hierarchy is arranged has been criticized as being ethnocentric. In turn, Hofstede's work has been criticized by others. 

Maslow's hierarchy does not tackle the difference between the social and intellectual needs of those raised in individualistic societies and those raised in collectivist societies. 

The needs and drives of those in individualistic societies "may" be more self-centered than those in collectivist societies. They may focus on improving themselves. In collectivist societies, the needs of acceptance and community may outweigh the needs for freedom and individuality.


Maslow was 5'10

Cyclone Bodil

Cyclone Bodil (also Cyclone Xaver) was a winter storm that affected Western Europe. This storm brought intense snowfall and strong wind to Sweden and the United Kingdom. Belgium, Germany, The Netherlands, Denmark and Poland also suffered from strong winds and downpours. Several people died. Most of them in Sweden.

Vitruvian Man

The Vitruvian Man, known in Italian as L'uomo vitruviano, is a drawing made by Leonardo da Vinci in about 1490. Around the drawing are notes based on the work of the architect Vitruvius. Its original name was Le proporzioni del corpo umano secondo Vitruvio - this means "The proportions of the human body according to Vitruvius".click here to watch video explaining this topic

The drawing is done in pen and ink on paper. It is of a male figure standing in two positions, that are superimposed (drawn over the top of each other). The figure's arms and legs are drawn in two different positions, while the rest of the body stays in one position. The figure is drawn standing inside both a circle and a square.

The drawing and text are sometimes called the Canon of Proportions or, less often, Proportions of Man. It is stored in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, Italy. It is displayed only occasionally.

The drawing is based on the ideal proportions of a man's body, and how this relates to geometry. This relationship was described by the ancient Roman architect Vitruvius in Book III of his treatise "De architectura". Vitruvius wrote the human figure was the main source of proportion among the Classical orders of architecture. He wrote that the ideal body should be eight heads tall. Da Vinci's drawing is traditionally named in honour of the architect.


WWE SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain

WWE SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ. The game was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling 5 in Japan.

It was released on October 27, 2003 in North America, November 7, 2003 in Europe and on January 29, 2004 in Japan. The game was the first in the WWE SmackDown! video game series and is the sequel to WWE SmackDown! Shut Your Mouth. It was the last game under the SmackDown! title and was followed by WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw.

IGN rated the game a 9.1 out of 10 and said "One of the best wrestling games we've ever played...With its ultra-improved gameplay mechanics, enhanced visual engine, smarter career mode, and established create-a-character feature, Yuke's and THQ are definitely the track to success.”

GameSpot gave the game a 9 out of 10 and stated "What the game lacks in innovation, however, is more than made up for in sheer playability."

The game was nominated in the "Sports Game" category at the 1st British Academy Video Games Awards. It was also nominated for "Best Sports Game" and won "Best Fighting Game" at the 2003 Spike Video Game Awards. 

Mary Lambert

Mary Lambert (born May 3, 1989) is an American singer and songwriter. She is best known for singing on the rapper Macklemore's single "Same Love" from 2012. It sold over 2 million copies in the United States.

Lambert was born in Everett, Washington. When she was 17 she came out as a lesbian. She moved to Seattle in 2007. She lives there with her girlfriend Rachel.

Lambert released her first extended play "Letters Don't Talk" on July 17, 2012. The next day "Same Love" was released as a single from Macklemore and Ryan Lewis' album "The Heist". Lambert sung on it and helped write the song. The single reached number one in Australia and New Zealand.

In January 2013, her first book of poetry, "500 tips for fat girls", was published.

In May 2013, she sang "Same Love" on The Colbert Report.

Lambert released the video for her single "She Keeps Me Warm" in August 2013. Lambert's second extended play, "Welcome to the Age of My Body", was released on December 17, 2013.

She will release her first album in 2014. She was nominated for two awards at the 2014 Grammys. Lambert performed "Same Love" at the ceremony.

Solomon Asch

Solomon Eliot Asch (September 14, 1907 – February 20, 1996) was a Polish and American Gestalt psychologist. 

Asch was born in Warsaw, the capital of Poland, to a Jewish family that considered themselves Polish. He grew up in a small town called Łowicz. In 1920, Asch and his family moved to the United States. They lived on the Lower East Side of New York. He did not speak English well, so he found school difficult. He learned English by reading Charles Dickens. Asch got his degree from the College of the City of New York in 1928. In 1930, he married Florence Miller.

In the 1930s, Asch started to do research. In 1951, Asch did an experiment that is known as the Asch Experiment. Asch's experiment tested how much humans are influenced by other people's opinions. A textbook that Asch wrote, "Social Psychology", was published in 1952. In 1966 Asch started the Institute for Cognitive Studies at Rutgers University. In 1972 he moved to the University of Pennsylvania. He stayed there as a professor of psychology until he retired in 1979. He started all of this research because he thought that there was a problem with the Sherif's conformity test.

Beach House

Beach House is a pair of dream pop musicians from Baltimore. The band started in 2004. Victoria Legrand sings their songs and plays keyboards. Alex Scally plays guitar and plays keyboards. Beach House have released four albums. 

They made their first album in two days. Carpark Records released Beach House's first album, "Beach House", in 2006. 

"Devotion" was released in 2008. 

In January 2010 Subpop Records released Beach House's third album "Teen Dream".

Beach House performed as an opening act for Vampire Weekend in August 2010. 

In 2012 "Bloom" was released. It went straight to number seven in the "Billboard" 200. 

The band released a short film called "Forever Still" on February 4, 2013.

In January 2014 Beach House performed Gene Clark's 1974 album "No Other" with Robin Pecknold, Daniel Rossen, Hamilton Leithauser, Iain Matthews, and Jess Wasner in the United States.

On April 19 2014 "Space Project", an album with a song by Beach House on it, will be released for Record Store Day.


Alloy wheels

Alloy wheels are automobile wheels that are made of an aluminum alloy instead of steel. Most new cars have alloy wheels, either as standard equipment or as an option. Older buses and large trucks almost never have alloy wheels, but they have recently become an option on newer models. The first alloy wheels were made of magnesium alloys, but these are no longer made because the magnesium alloys were too weak and would eventually crack.

Gene Clark

Harold Eugene "Gene" Clark (November 17, 1944 – May 24, 1991) was an American singer and songwriter. He started the folk rock band The Byrds in 1964. He wrote lots of The Byrds' most well known songs. They were very popular. In 1967 he released his first solo album, "Gene Clark with the Gosdin Brothers". It was not successful. However he went on to make several more solo albums.

Gene Clark was born in Tipton, Missouri. He was the third of thirteen children. He started writing songs when he was 11.,

In 1964 Clark started The Byrds with Jim McGuinn and David Crosby. Clark was the singer. Clark released his first album with The Byrds, "Mr Tambourine Man", in 1965. In 1966 Clark left the band. He joined the band again in 1967. He left after three weeks. In 1968 Clark released his first album with Doug Dillard, "The Fantastic Expedition of Dillard & Clark". Dillard & Clark released their second album, "Through the Morning, Through the Night" in 1969. In 1974 Clark's fourth album "No Other" was released. It got bad reviews. Clark released an album with Carla Onson in 1987 called "So Rebellious a Lover". It was his last studio album.

Clark died on May 24, 1991. He was 46. He died because of a bleeding ulcer that he had.

Abdel Fattah el-Sisi

Abdel Fattah Saeed Hussein Khalil el-Sisi (born Cairo, 19 November 1954) has been the President of Egypt since June 2014. el-Sisi was Deputy Prime Minister of Egypt from 16 July 2013 - 26 March 2014. He was Minister of Defence from 12 August 2012 until 26 March 2014 when he retired from the Army. el-Sisi ran for President in May 2014, and won against Hamdeen Sabahi. He has supported fighting radical Islam while President. He is also well known for negotiating a ceasefire between Israel and Palestine.

el-Sisi graduated from the Egyptian Military Academy in 1977 with a diploma in military sciences and was an Army officer for more than 30 years. He is married to Entissar Amer.

el-Sisi was appointed defense minister by Mohamed Morsi in 2012. After Morsi began to crack down on opposition in Egypt, protests broke out. In 2013, with the support of the military and el-Sisi, Morsi was ousted in Egypt's second revolution in three years.

He was voted "TIME" Magazine's Person of the Year in 2013 by the public, but lost to Pope Francis for the official title.

In 2019 and 2020, el-Sisi was the Chairperson of the African Union.

Pfalz D.III

The Pfalz D.III is a biplane fighter aircraft. It was flown during World War I. It was a single-engine aircraft. It was very fast when diving. The Pfalz D.III was often used to attack observation balloons.

Haim

HAIM (which is said like 'time' with a 'h' instead of a 't') is an American indie pop band. The members are sisters Alana, Danielle, and Este. They released their first album "Days Are Gone" on September 27 2013. The British newspaper The Guardian put the album at number twelve on their list of 2013's 40 best albums. They are often compared to Fleetwood Mac.

The sisters grew up in the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles. In 2006 they started HAIM. For the next five years the band performed where they lived. On February 10, 2012 HAIM released their first EP "Forever". It was on their website to download for free for a short amount of time. 

In January 2013 HAIM won BBC's Sound of 2013 poll.

On September 22, 2013 HAIM released their fourth single from their album "Days Are Gone", "The Wire". It reached number sixteen in the UK Singles Chart. It was their highest charting single in the UK yet.

On November 23 2013 HAIM performed their singles "The Wire" and "Don't Save Me" on Saturday Night Live.



Martel, Lot

Martel is a commune in the Lot department in south-western France.

The town has a distinctive sky-line with medieval towers. There is a museum containing items from Puy d'Issolud, a local Gallic archaeological site which has been identified as Uxellodunum, besieged by Julius Caesar in 51 BC.

Henry the Young King died here in 1183.


Rebirth (album)

Rebirth is a studio album by Lil Wayne. It is his debut rap rock album. It was supported by the songs: "Prom Queen", "Knockout" (featuring Nicki Minaj), and "Drop The World" (featuring Eminem).

Swim Good

"Swim Good" is a song by Frank Ocean. It is from his mixtape "Nostalgia, Ultra". It is about a man who kills himself because of heartache. Frank Ocean references "808s & Heartbreak" by Kanye West.

Jane Goldman

Jane Loretta Anne Goldman (born 11 June 1970) is an English screenwriter and television producer. She was born in Hammersmith, west London. She wrote the screenplay for the 2012 movie "The Woman in Black". She married Jonathan Ross in 1988. She has two daughters and a son with him. She lives with Ross in Hampstead Garden Suburb. She produces "The Big Fat Quiz of the Year".

Novacane (song)

"Novacane" is a song by Frank Ocean. It is from his mixtape "Nostalgia, Ultra". It is about a girl who works as a dentist and pornstar to get money for drugs. It is Ocean's first single. It is a PBR&B, neo soul, and alternative hip hop song.

