Antiparticle

There is an antiparticle corresponding to most kinds of particle. It has the same mass and opposite electric charge.

Even electrically neutral particles, such as the neutron, are not identical to their antiparticle. In the example of the neutron, the 'ordinary' particle is made out of quarks and the antiparticle out of antiquarks.

Particle-antiparticle pairs can annihilate each other if they are in appropriate quantum states. They can also be produced in various processes. These processes are used in particle accelerators to create new particles and to test theories of particle physics. High energy processes in nature can create antiparticles. These are visible in cosmic rays and in certain nuclear reactions. The word antimatter properly refers to (elementary) antiparticles, composite antiparticles made with them (such as antihydrogen) and to larger assemblies of either.

In 1932, soon after the prediction of positrons by Paul Dirac, Carl Anderson found that cosmic-ray collisions produced these particles in a cloud chamber a particle detector in which moving electrons (or positrons) leave behind trails as they move through the gas.

The antiproton and antineutron were found by Emilio Segrè and Owen Chamberlain in 1955 at the University of California, Berkeley. Since then the antiparticles of many other subatomic particles have been created in particle accelerators. In recent years, complete atoms of antimatter have been assembled out of antiprotons and positrons, collected in electromagnetic traps.


Hamo Beknazarian

Hamo Beknazarian, also known as Hamo Bek Nazarov (born May 19, 1891 in Yerevan, died April 27, 1965 in Moscow) was an Armenian movie director. His career in cinema started in 1914, when a friend offered him a part in a movie. Between 1914 and 1918, he played about 70 parts, becoming a popular actor in pre-Revolutionary Russian movie. In 1920, instead of going to Armenia as he planned, he went to Tbilisi, where he developed a movie department for Georgian Commissioner's office of Public Education. Many of his movies were filmed in Tbilisi, including "The Father Murderer" and "Lost Treasures". In 1925, he filmed his first Armenian movie and moved to Armenia. In 1933, he made the first Armenian movie to have sound, "Pepo".

Beknazarian also made a few documentary movies.


Henrik Malyan

Henrik Malyan (Armenian language:Հենրիկ Մալյան; September 30, 1925 in Telavi, Georgia – March 14, 1988 in Yerevan, Armenia) was an Armenian movie director.

His 1977 movie "Life Triumphs" ("Nahapet") is considered to be one of the most important Armenian movies to deal with the Armenian Genocide. It was exhibited in the 1978 Cannes Film Festival.


Septuagint

The original Septuagint (often referred to "LXX") was a translation of the Torah, the five books of Moses from the Hebrew Bible into the Greek language. It was done between the 3rd and 1st centuries BC in Alexandria. It was the first translations of the Hebrew Bible. After 350 years, the Church translated all the books of the Old Testament, and it also has books that Catholics and Orthodox Christians call the Deuterocanon. These books are called Apocrypha by Protestants because they do not think these books are sacred.

An ancient tradition says that 70 Jewish scholars were in different rooms when they translated the Torah from Hebrew into Greek, yet they all produced exactly the same text. People thought this was a miracle. The Latin language word for "70" is "septuaginta", and the word "Septuagint" comes from that. Another way to write "70" is "LXX" which is why writers sometimes use that as a short name for Septuagint.

The Septuagint was used as the starting point for some later translations of the Bible.




Katharine McPhee

Katharine Hope McPhee (born March 25, 1984) is an American Pop/R&B singer. She was the runner-up to Taylor Hicks on the fifth season of the television show American Idol in 2006. Her first album, named "Katharine McPhee", was released January 30, 2007.


World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)

The World Heavyweight Championship was one of the top wrestling championships in the WWE along with the WWE Championship. It was created on "RAW" to match "SmackDown's" WWE Championship in August 2002. Some of the past champions include Edge, Triple H, The Undertaker, Booker T, Batista, and Kurt Angle.

The World Heavyweight Championship was brought to Raw by then-General Manager Eric Bischoff after WWE Champion Brock Lesnar became exclusive to SmackDown. Bischoff awarded the championship to Triple H, but he had to defend it against his then-best friend, Ric Flair. Triple H was successful and has held the championship on five different occasions. Other holders of this prestigious championship include Shawn Michaels, Undertaker, Rey Mysterio and more.

The final champion was Randy Orton. He beat then-champion John Cena on December 15, 2013 at . He was already WWE Champion when he won the championship and unified the World Heavyweight Championship with the WWE Championship to make the "WWE World Heavyweight Championship". The World Heavyweight Championship was retired the next day.
In 2023, a new World Heavyweight Championship was made but it does not continue the history of the old title.



Islamic calendar

The Islamic calendar or Hijri calendar () is a calendar. It is used to determine Islamic holidays in most of Islam. It is a lunar calendar: it uses the phases of the Moon (rather the Earth's orbit of the Sun) to count the passing of time. Its year has 12 months of 29 or 30 days, and lasts a total of 354 or 355 days. This means that each year of the Hijri calendar is about 11 days shorter than a solar calendar such as the Gregorian. Islamic years are often called "hijra" years, because the first year of the calendar when the "hijra" occurred, that is when Prophet Muhammad went from Mecca to Medina.

The current Islamic Calendar year is 1445 AH (AH = = Year of the Hijra.)

Two Islamic countries (Iran and Afghanistan) use a different calendar, the Solar Hijri Calendar ("SH").

The timing of the months in the Islamic calendar is determined by direct observation of the Moon. A new month can only begin after a "waxing crescent Moon" is observed shortly after sunset. The "waxing crescent Moon" is the phase of the Moon which starts right after a New Moon. A lunar month (one new moon to the next) lasts a little over 29.5 days. For convenience, a month is the Islamic calendar is either 29 days or 30 days, one after the other. So a 29-day month is followed by a 30-day month (29+30 is the same as 29.5+29.5). In most years, that means that a year of 12 calendar months last 354 days. But that "a little over" is 44 minutes every month so, to keep the calendar in step with reality, an extra day is needed nearly every third year, so these years are 355 days long. 

Whether or not the first crescent moon is actually visible differs by location. For desert communities, cloud-cover is rarely a problem but that is not true for people who live in the rain forest. One option is to use the tabular Islamic calendar, which predicts the moment of waxing crescent moon assuming perfect visibility. This method is used routinely by some Islamic communities but regarded by others as just an aid to securing a successful observation.

The commencement of Islamic months occurs at sunset on the first day, coinciding with the visual sighting of the lunar crescent. Lasting approximately 354 days, the lunar year causes the months to cycle in reverse through the seasons, without adherence to the fixed dates of the Gregorian calendar. The months of the Islamic year are:


Town privileges

Town privileges were important things. They were special treaties or royal charters used in the Middle Ages. In such a charter, a sovereign, a monarch granted the town or city special rights. These usually included
Many of those charters were very similar. In the end, only few charters remained in use. Notable ones in the territory of modern-day Germany include the Lübeck law, the Magdeburg rights and the Kulm law.

Afternoon

Afternoon is the time period from noon to sunset. It is generally agreed upon that afternoon starts at noon,but it ends in the evening .

Medieval music

Medieval music is music from the Middle Ages. The time we call the Middle Ages is a long period from about 400 AD to 1400 AD. We do not know a great deal about music of this time because it was such a long time ago and music was not often written down. Music was used for both entertainment and religious practice.

In Europe there were people who went around the countryside making a living by singing and playing musical instruments. They often went to big houses where rich people lived and entertained them with their faces. These travelling musicians were called minstrels in England, and troubadours or trouvères in many other countries, or Minnesinger in Germany.

The minstrels often sang long songs which told stories (a ballad). This was a way to tell people about what was happening in the world. Some of the stories were made up: they were about love or about mythology.

Richard the Lionheart was a keen musician. He wrote many songs in the style of the trouvères. On the way back from a Crusade he was captured by Leopold of Austria. The story goes that his attendant, Blondel, was looking for him everywhere. Then he heard Richard’s voice singing a tune which he knew and so he found him. The song that he was singing was called "Ja Nuns Hons Pris" ("I am no longer captive").

Minstrels very often went with their masters when they went on journeys to battles. They also sang at important ceremonies, for example when people were being knighted. Many of them played instruments such as the lute or fiddle.

Minstrels were poets and musicians, because they made up their own words and the tunes. Sometimes we know the words of these songs because they wrote them down, but they did not write the tunes down. Walther von der Vogelweide was a famous minnesinger in Germany.

One famous tune that was written down is the round "Sumer is icumen in". It was written down by a monk. Monks could often read and write.
Troubadours would go from town to town playing love songs.

There were two main types of dances in medieval times: line dances and circle dances. The farandole is a line dance. It was a bit like a modern conga with people following a leader in a line. The bransle was a round dance or circle dance. The word “bransle” comes from the French word “branler” (“to sway”). It is pronounced 'Brawl'. 

Other dances were the basse dance and estampie.

Instruments could be divided into quiet ones which were used indoors, and loud ones which were used outside. The recorder was a very popular indoor instrument. There was also the psaltery and the harp (which looked like a small Welsh harp of today).

The bagpipes were loud instruments for outside. They were used for dancing. They were not as loud as modern Scottish bagpipes. They were more like Northumbrian pipes or the French musettes. There was also the hurdy-gurdy which was played by turning a handle. Pipe and tabor were used for Morris dancing.

Many medieval plucked string instruments were similar to the modern guitar, such as the lute and mandolin. The dulcimer and zither were had strings which were hit with sticks. These are still popular in East Europe today. There were also “fiddles” (vielle) and trombones (called sackbut).

It was believed that if you were entertained with music while you are eating it would help you digest your food and help keep your heart healthy. And people believed that you will not get fat even if you scoffed down a load of food. Also eating food while having people dancing for you was believed to have made you fit.

Church music was very important. The mass was the main form of church music. It used the five parts of the mass Ordinary (the Eucharist service): "Kyrie, Gloria, Credo, Sanctus" and "Agnus Dei". The priests in the churches wanted church music to be serious. They did not want it to become popular. They thought that if people enjoyed it too much they would forget about worshipping God. Religious plays had become very popular. They told stories from the Bible. However, the church leaders banned them, so they were performed in the streets and squares of the towns.

Instruments were also banned in church. The church leaders thought that they belonged to the devil. Only singing was allowed. Gradually, however, the organ started to be allowed in church. It helped people to sing. Some organs were very tiny. They were called portative organs. The large organs that were fixed in place were called “positives”. Bells were also used in church. They looked like our sleigh bells.

Medieval music was based on plainsong. This was a melody which sounded quite free in rhythm. Composers started adding a second part to the melody as an accompaniment. This was called organum. Sometimes it just simply followed the main tune a fourth or fifth below. This was called “parallel organum”. In the 12th and 13th centuries the original plainsong started to be put at the bottom. It became known as the cantus firmus (the “firm tune”). Sometimes antiphony was used. The simplest form of antiphony is when a leader sings something and a group (the choir) sing something back.

The type of plainchant that evolved was called Gregorian chant. By the 13th century all other types of chant had been forgotten in Western Europe.

Carols became popular at this time. At first a carol was a dancing song, but often these popular songs became used for songs for particular seasons or festivals. In later periods these developed into Christmas carols as we know them.

People often went around in groups, particularly at Christmas, singing at the houses of rich people. This was called Wassailing. The word means “being of good cheer” (i.e. “happy”). "The Boar’s Head" is a well-known medieval carol.

Mummers were groups of people who performed religious plays. They were travelling entertainers. They normally wore masks so that people did not know who they were.

There are not many musical manuscripts which have survived from the Middle Ages. Most of them are religious music. They were often written using a system called neumes. The pitch (music) of the music is shown by the neumes, but the rhythms were not very clear. Gradually the system of writing music we know today was evolving. Philippe de Vitry was an important composer and music theorist. He developed ways of writing rhythms.

Most of the medieval music we know today belongs to the last part of the Middle Ages. There was a tradition known as the “Notre Dame school”. This music dates from around 1150 to 1250. It was the time that great cathedrals were being built in Gothic architecture. The cathedral of Notre Dame was a very famous example. The music of this time was called “Ars antique”. It used a system of rhythms called “rhythmic modes”. Gradually a new way of writing was used. This was called “Ars nova” (“New art”). The most famous composer of this time was Guillaume de Machaut. He developed a kind of composition called the isorhythmic motet. He wrote a lot of songs called chansons (the French word for “song”). Other types of song were called "rondeau", "ballade", and "virelai". 

Composers who were born at the end of the Middle Ages such as John Dunstable, Guillaume Dufay, and Gilles Binchois are often thought to belong to the next period in music history: the Renaissance period.


Neolithic

The Neolithic period is the last part of the Stone Age. After the Neolithic came the Bronze Age. During the Neolithic, people invented farming and started caring for animals, such as cows, sheep and pigs.

The Neolithic period started at different times in different places, since not everyone started farming at the same time.

The word "Neolithic" means “new Stone Age.” It comes from two words in Greek meaning "new" and "lithic" ("stone").



Crotchet

A crotchet or quarter note is a note played for one fourth of a whole note (or "semibreve"). Quarter notes are written as a filled-in oval (or round) note head and a straight, flagless stem (the line). The stem usually points up (like a d) if it is below the middle line of the stave or down (like a p) if it is on or above the middle line.

When beginners start to learn to play an instrument they are often taught that one crotchet lasts for one beat (one count). That is because they are learning pieces with simple time signatures. It is, however, important to remember that other note lengths (minims, dotted crotchets etc.) can also be treated as one beat, depending on the time signature.

44 BC

Year 44 BC was either a common year starting on Sunday or Monday or a leap year starting on Friday or Saturday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Antony.



Burzum

Burzum was a black metal/dark ambient one man band from Bergen, Norway. The band was formed in 1991 by "Varg Vikernes". He is best known for serving a prison sentence for the murder of Mayhem guitarist "Øystein Aarseth" and arson of churches.




John Collins

John Collins (born January 31, 1968 in Galashiels, Scotland) is a Scottish footballer. He is currently the manager of Charleroi. Collins played for Celtic in the early 1990s. 


Mayhem (band)

Mayhem is a Norwegian black metal band. It was founded in 1984 by guitarist Øystein Aarseth (aka Euronymous), bass guitarist Jørn Stubberud (aka Necrobutcher), and drummer Kjetil Manheim (aka Manheim). The band name is taken from the Venom song, "Mayhem with Mercy."
During the early years, the band used either session vocalists Messiah or Maniac for live/studio performances. During rehearsals, they played either without a singer, or either Necrobutcher or Euronymous would sing.

By late 1987, both Manheim and Maniac had left the band. Members of the band Vomit sang for the band for a short time. In 1988, singer Dead, and drummer Hellhammer joined the band.

Dead killed himself in 1991. He shot himself in the mouth with a shotgun after cutting his wrists with a knife. The shell he used, was not given to him by Varg Vikernes (Count Grishnackh). His body was found in his room. A suicide note was also found. It said "Excuse all the blood". Euronymous took pictures of the body and room. One of these pictures was used as the cover of their "Dawn of the Black Hearts" album. This started people saying many things about the band. It was said that Euronymous had cooked and eaten pieces of Dead's brain. It was also said that parts of Dead's skull had been used to make necklaces that both Euronymous and Hellhammer wore. It is not likely that his brains were eaten, but it is known that necklaces were made, and that pictures were taken.

With the media and police attention after Dead's suicide, Necrobutcher (Jørn Stubberud) left the band. Dead was replaced by Occultus (Stian Johansen). He was the ex-singer of Thyabhorrent. He sang and played bass in Mayhem for a few months, but soon left. Varg Vikernes (Burzum) joined as bassist.

On August 10th, 1993, Varg Vikernes murdered Euronymous in his apartment. Their relationship before the murder had gotten bad. It is thought that there were many reasons why Vikernes killed him. These include that it was over a girl, jealousy of Euronymous's position in the band, Euronymous owing him money and Euronymous not releasing Burzum's albums on time. Euronymous was found in his underwear with knife wound. Varg was rumoured to try and outdo the murder Faust of the band Emperor did. At his trial, Vikernes came into court with his long hair made into pigtails. He said he had nothing to do with Euronymous's death. He laughed throughout the trial. Vikernes was found guilty the murder. He was sent to prison for 21 years. This is the most time a person can be sent to prison in Norway. When police arrested Vikernes, he was found with over of dynamite and plans to destroy Nidarosdomen on a religious holiday. Nodarosdomen is a large Christian church in Trondheim. Varg Vikernes has a different story to the reasons for killing Euronymous. He created many articles to tell the reasons.

After the trial, Euronymous's parents asked Hellhammer to remove the parts of the bands music that Varg had recorded. He told them he would do this. Since he could not play the bass guitar, the changes were not made. The album remained the same, with Varg playing on it.

Their performances used heavy atmospheric effects. These included things such as pig heads put on wooden poles. Dead's clothes were buried days or weeks before the show. They were dug up before the performances and would be covered in decay, dirt and insects. Pieces of rotting meat were thrown into the audience and given to people to eat or rip on the spot. Dead ravens were placed in a bag so Dead could smell decay and death. Members would also cut themselves onstage.





Mom at Sixteen

Mom at Sixteen is a 2005 American made-for-TV movie. It is about a sixteen year old mother, Jacey Jeffries (Danielle Panabaker) in high school.

Jeffries is hiding the fact that she is the mother of Charley, the baby. Charley is the teen's mother's responsibility. When Jeffries goes to swimming practice and takes her migrane medicine, she faints because of the side affects of the medicine. While thinking she is being taken to the delivery room, she asks if her baby is okay while other students are around. Her classmates and teacher soon find out about Charley. Jeffries is teased by the other students. She decides give up the baby to the foster home at the end, and Charley finds a new home.

Danielle Panabaker

Danielle Nicole Panabaker (born September 19, 1987) is an American actress. She is known for acting in many movies. These include "Sky High" and "Mom at Sixteen". She has also acted on the television series including "Shark" and "The Flash". In 2021, she won a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress on Television for her role as Caitlin Snow / Frost in "The Flash".

Panabaker is the older sister of child actress Kay. Both girls act in Disney Channel programs.


Renaissance music

Renaissance music is European music written from about the year 1400 to 1600. This section of time is called the Renaissance, a word which means “rebirth”. The Renaissance comes between the Middle Ages and the Baroque times.

Putting music into time sections does not mean that there were quick changes of type. Music changed slowly, and early Renaissance music was similar to Medieval music. Slowly music-writers started to try new ideas. A lot of medieval church music had become very hard with lots of rules about rhythms and clashes of notes to make dissonances. A lot of Renaissance composers wrote music which was smoother and more gentle. The music was still polyphonic with each voice having a share of melody. Music was starting to become less modal and more tonal. By the time the Baroque period started composers were using a system of major and minor keys like we do today.

Composers wrote many masses and motets. The 16th century also saw the birth of the madrigal: secular (not religious) songs which were often about love. The madrigal started in Italy and became very popular for a short while in England from the 1580s. There were lots of other secular songs such as the chanson, canzonetta and villanelle. Songs were often accompanied by a lute.
Music was an essential part of civic, religious, and courtly life in the Renaissance. The rich interchange of ideas in Europe, as well as political, economic, and religious events in the period 1400–1600 led to major changes in styles of composing, methods of disseminating music, new musical genres, and the development of musical instruments. The most important music of the early Renaissance was compose for use by the church—polyphonic (made up of several simultaneous melodies) masses and motets in Latin for important churches and court chapels. By the end of the sixteenth century, however, patronage was split among many areas: the Catholic Church, Protestant churches and courts, wealthy amateurs, and music printing—all were sources of income for composers.

An important development during the Renaissance was music notation. Many musicians wrote books about music theory. They are useful for us because they tell us how music sounded in those days and what people thought about it. Music started to be written on a music staff with five lines. There were still no barlines in early Renaissance music. Notes were written with white note heads, e.g. the minim (half note) was at one time the shortest note that could be written (the “minimum” length). Only later did crochets (quarter notes) and quavers (eighth notes) come in. This does not mean that music was slow in those days, it was just the way it was written.

Key signatures had not yet been invented. Sharps and flats were sometimes shown by accidentals (written in front of the notes). Very often, however, the performers were expected to know or even decide for themselves the sharps and flats (see musica ficta).

Another very important discovery at this time was music printing. Music printing started in Italy in the mid 16th century.

In the early 15th century there was a group of composers known now as the Burgundian School (from Burgundy). Guillaume Dufay was the most famous. Their music sounded a little bit like medieval music. 

Towards the end of the 15th century a style of polyphonic sacred music had been developed that can be heard in the masses of Johannes Ockeghem and Jacob Obrecht. Ockeghem even composed one piece in which all the parts develop from one idea which was used as a canon.

In the 16th century composers started to write music with a clear beat and regular pulse. These included Josquin des Prez and others from the Franco-Flemish School. The was a Roman school, to which the famous Italian Giovanni da Palestrina belonged. His way of writing polyphony has been a model for that style for many centuries. Music students still have to study “Palestrina technique” (how to compose in Palestrina’s style). Although church music at this time is mainly polyphonic it also has homophonic passages where the voices sing the same words together. This helps to make important words really clear.

In Venice, from about 1534 until around 1600, a polychoral style developed. Choirs were separated, singing from different parts of the church, often from galleries. This grand music sounded beautiful in big churches such as the Basilica San Marco di Venezia. These composers are often called the “Venetian School”. Andrea Gabrieli and later his nephew Giovanni Gabrieli wrote this kind of music, and later Claudio Monteverdi who started in the Renaissance and lived into the Baroque period.

The change to the Baroque musical style happened around 1600. This was the time when opera was invented. This needed a new style of composing. The composer Monteverdi wrote in the Renaissance style until about 1600-1650, when he changed to the Baroque style. 

Kay Panabaker

Stephanie Kay Panabaker (born May 2, 1990) is an American actress from Orange, Texas. Some of her best known roles are Emily on "Life is Ruff" and Debbie on "Phil of the Future". Panabaker is the younger sister of actress Danielle. The two sisters starred together in the movie "Read it and Weep" for the Disney Channel. She has had recurring roles on the television series "" and "Angel".


Haley Hudson

Haley Hudson (born June 14, 1986) is an American actress. Her best known roles were in "Freaky Friday" and "Lizzie McGuire". Her image is a punky Gothic type person.

Enslaved (band)

Enslaved is an extreme metal band from Haugesund, Norway. their music has been called black metal and viking metal. The band was formed in 1991. It was made by Ivar Bjørnson and Grutle Kjellson.



Viking metal

Viking metal is a heavy metal music subgenre inspired by Norse mythology. Swedish metal band Bathory's fourth album, released in 1988 and called "Blood Fire Death", was the first Viking metal album. 


Musica ficta

Musica ficta is a term used in medieval and Renaissance music. It means that when musicians play or sing music they put in accidentals (sharps and flats) which are not written in the music.

In those days (near the end of the 16th century) music used modes instead of the modern system of major and minor keys. Sometimes the music would not sound right unless a note was sharpened or flattened (raised or lowered a semitone). For example, to go down from the note B to an F would have sounded bad, so the F would need to be an F sharp. The composer who wrote the music down might not bother to put the sign for F sharp. He would expect the performer to know that it should be an F sharp and not an F. This is what is called musica ficta.

Gradually it became more and more necessary for composers to write exactly what notes they wanted. The modern system of keys was developing. They developed the system of key signatures and accidentals (sharps and flats which are not in the key signature, but written as and when they are needed). The practice of musica ficta gradually ended.

Universal Studios Japan

Universal Studios Japan is one of four Universal Studios theme parks. It is in Osaka, Japan. The park opened on March 31, 2001.




Gap year

A gap year is time taken between completing secondary school and going to a university or college or also between college and graduate school or a profession. It is generally a practice of young people from Australia, Poland, Scandinavia, United Kingdom and United States. The time between the two events is often, but not always, a year. It is often used to travel or to gain experience with an internship at the lowest cost possible.

Beam bridge

A beam bridge is a strong, horizontal structure that rests on two end supports, and carries traffic by acting as a beam. 

Beam bridges are often used for heavy cars and trains to pass, and some are also built for people to walk on. Beam bridges used to be made from wood and were called "log bridges". Modern ones are mostly made of steel. Beam bridges are usually placed over highways, rivers or gaps in the earth so people or cars can cross over them. Beam bridges are simple but they cannot be as long as more complex and expensive kinds. Beam bridges can be connected to make one longer bridge. 

Gene Simmons

Gene Simmons (born August 25, 1949 in Haifa, Israel) is an American musician, who is the bassist and a singer for the hard rock band Kiss.

Born with the name of Chaim Witz in Haifa, Israel, Gene emigrated at age 8 with his family to Queens, New York. His mother, Flora Klein, was born in Jand, Hungary. His father, Feri Witz, was also born in Hungary. He adopted the stage name of Gene Simmons in the late 1960s. He lives with his longtime partner Shannon Tweed and has two children, Nick and Sophie.

in 1972 Gene Simmons together with guitarist Paul Stanley are the band Kiss, Gene and Paul join the band the musicians Ace Frehley on guitar and Peter Criss on drums and vocals. One of the characteristics of the band were his outlandish makeup and costumes. In 1973 Kiss; Paul Stanley guitar and voice, Gene Simmons bass and voice, Ace Frehley in lead guitar released their first album Kiss", Gene composed the hit "Strutter" with Stanley, and "Deuce" two of the biggest hits of the band. Kiss recorded their second album Hotter Than Hell, released on October 22, 1974. In 1975 the band released the third album Dressed to Kill, with the theme Rock and Roll All Nite, the most successful of the band, written by Simmons and Stanley. Gene with Kiss, recorded with two of the best live albums "Alive!" (1975) and "Alive II" (1977). In 1976 and 1977 he edited two of the best albums of the band "Destroyer" released on March 15, 1976, and "Love Gun" released on June 30, 1977. Gene Simmons as the other members of Kiss released the solo album "Gene Simmons" released for sale in 1978. In 1979 he recorded with Kiss "Dynasty" a disc-themed disco. After the album Unmasked (1980), Peter Criss left the band, Gene and Paul chose Eric Carr replaced Criss, in the drummer. In 1982 he joined the band the guitarist Vinnie Vincent in substitution for Ace Frehley. With the newly formed launch the album "Creatures of the Night", Gene Simmons composed the theme "I Love It Loud" one of the most powerful of Kiss. In 1983 Kiss appears without makeup on the cover of the album Lick It Up, the band had changed their style of Hard Rock for the Heavy Metal style. For 1984 released the album Animalize, another powerful album of Heavy Metal. Mark St. John as lead guitarist, was incorporated in replacing Vinnie Vincent. Mark left the band in 1985 and was replaced by Bruce Kulick, who would maintain the lead guitar until 1997. In 1989 Gene recorded with Kiss one of their best album Hot in the Shade, with two of the best tracks from the band "Hide Your Heart" and Forever. In 1991 the premature death of Eric Carr forced to Gene and Paul to seek replacements, They chose a young drummer Eric Singer, who had worked with Alice Cooper. With Singer on drums the band released the album "Revenge" released on May 19, 1992, an album that recalled the band's early records. They also recorded the third live album Alive III (1993).
After inviting former members of Kiss Criss and Frehley to record the acoustic album. Gene Simmons and Paul Stanley decided, to Frehley and Criss will incorporate the band. Kiss original training again with face painting, leave and turn around the United States and the world. With the original Kiss recorded "Psycho Circus" (1998) a studio album after 18 years.
Gene Simmons currently continue performing with Stanley at the head of Kiss. The current formation Kiss is Simmons in Bass and vocals, Paul Stanley in guitar and vocals, Tommy Thayer in lead guitar, and Eric Singer in drums.

Gene Simmons also turned to acting film credits include Runaway (1984), with Tom Selleck and directed by Michael Crichton, Wanted: Dead or Alive (1986), with Rutger Hauer, Red Surf (1990), with George Clooney, Wish You Were Dead (2002), with Christopher Lloyd. And appearances on television series as Miami Vice (1985), The Hitchhiker (1986), Millennium (1998), Third Watch (2004) and more. Simmons and his family starred in the reality show Gene Simmons: Family Jewels (2006-2010).



Beam

Beam could mean:

Fox News

The Fox News Channel (commonly known as Fox News) is an American 24-hour cable and satellite television news network. It was made by Rupert Murdoch and Roger Ailes. It is owned by . the channel was officially launched in 1996.

The channel plays up to 15 hours of live shows every day. 6 hours of these are opinion shows. The hosts of its opinion shows are Sean Hannity, Neil Cavuto, Greta Van Susteren, and Tucker Carlson introduced to the network by Group CEO Gerard Bevan along with Geraldo Rivera. Fox News Network leans right-wing, but has some liberals (such as Greta van Susteren).

There was a documentary called "Outfoxed" that criticized the channel because they say it is biased towards conservatives and the US Republican Party in its reporting. Fox says its opinion shows are conservative but its regular news programs are not. President Barack Obama, through a spokesperson, accused Fox News of working for the Republican Party. Fox has also been accused of having a right-wing bias, racism, discrimination, race baiting and gender inequality. Roger Ailes has called Fox News "the balance" against the liberal networks news groups such as ABC News, NBC News, CBS News, Cable News Network, and MSNBC. 


Omsk

Omsk is a city in Russia in the Siberia region, capital of Omsk Oblast. As of the census in 2010, Omsk had been declared one of the cities in Russia with over 1 million people. Omsk is close to the border of Kazakhstan.
Omsk is the only city in the world which has Metro with only one station.

There is Omsk engine building constructor bureau.



Mayhem

Mayhem could mean:


Question mark

The question mark (?) is a punctuation mark that is used at the end of a sentence when asking a question.

The symbol is thought to come from the Latin quæstio, meaning "question", which was shortened to Qo. The uppercase Q was written above the lowercase o, and this mark was turned into the symbol that we use today.

Another guess about where question mark comes from says that it comes from the 9th century, when it was a point followed by the curved part written slanted.

Some writers put a space between the end of their sentence and the question mark. This is thought to come from a French practice and is called French spacing. In French a space is always put before question marks, exclamation marks, colons, and semicolons. In English, however, using this space is thought of as bad form. Some English books do have these spaces, but are often a very thin space, which are not full spaces but an attempt to make the words easier to read.

In computing, the question mark character is represented by ASCII code 63, and is located at Unicode code-point U+003F. The full-width (double-byte) equivalent, ？, is located at Unicode code point U+FF1F.


Kevin Federline

Kevin Earl Federline (born March 21, 1978) is an American entertainer, who dances, raps and models as his job. He is famous for being the former husband of pop singer Britney Spears. Federline has 4 kids, 2 with actress Shar Jackson and 2 with Spears.

Mercyful Fate

Mercyful Fate are a heavy metal band from Denmark. The band was formed in Copenhagen in 1980.








Electrical circuit

A circuit is a closed path that consists of circuit components in which electrons from a voltage or current source can flow. If the circuit consists of electric components like a resistor, a capacitor, an inductor etc. then it will be called an Electrical circuit and if the circuit consists of any of the electronic circuit components like a diode, a Transistor etc. then it will be called an Electronic circuit. So, the electronic circuits may consist both of the electrical and electronic circuit components, but an electrical circuit will have only the electrical components.

The point where electrons enter an electrical circuit is called the "source" of electrons. The point where the electrons leave an electrical circuit is called the "return" or "earth ground". The exit point is called the "return" because electrons always end up at the source when they complete the path of an electrical circuit.

The part of an electrical circuit that is between the electrons' starting point and the point where they return to the source is called an electrical circuit's "load". The load of an electrical circuit may be as simple as those that power home appliances like refrigerators, televisions, or lamps or more complicated, such as the load on the output of a hydroelectric power generating station.

Circuits use two forms of electrical power: alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC). AC often powers large appliances and motors and is generated by power stations. DC powers battery-operated vehicles and other machines and electronics. Converters can change AC to DC and vice versa. High-voltage direct current transmission uses big converters.

Electronic circuits usually use direct current sources. The load of an electronic circuit may be as simple as a few resistors, capacitors, and a lamp, all connected together to create the flash in a camera. Or an electronic circuit can be complicated, connecting thousands of resistors, capacitors, and transistors. It may be an integrated circuit such as the microprocessor in a computer.

Resistors and other circuit elements can be connected in series or in parallel. Resistance in series circuits is the sum of the resistance.

A circuit or wiring diagram is a visual display of an electrical circuit. Electrical and electronic circuits can be complicated. Making a drawing of the connections to all the component parts in the circuit's load makes it easier to understand how circuit components are connected. Drawings for electronic circuits are called "circuit diagrams". Drawings for electrical circuits are called "wiring diagrams". Like other diagrams, these diagrams are usually drawn by draftsmen, and then printed. Diagrams may also be created digitally using specialised software.

A schematic is a diagram of an electrical circuit. Schematics are graphical representations of the essential connections in a circuit, but they are not lifelike depictions of a circuit. Schematics use symbols to represent components in the circuit. Conventions are used in a schematic to represent the way electricity flows. The common convention we use is from the positive to the negative terminal. The realistic way electricity flows is from the negative to the positive terminal.

Circuit diagrams use special symbols. The symbols on the drawings show how components like resistors, capacitors, insulators, motors, outlet boxes, lights, switches, and other electrical and electronic components are connected together. The diagrams are a big help when workers try to find out why a circuit does not work correctly.

The current flowing in an electrical or electronic circuit can suddenly increase when a component part fails. This can cause serious damage to other components in the circuit, or create a fire hazard. To protect against this, a fuse or a device called a "circuit breaker" can be wired into a circuit. The circuit breaker will open, or "break", the circuit when the current in that circuit becomes too high, or the fuse will "blow". This gives protection.

The standard return for electrical and electronic circuits is the earth ground. When an electrical or electronic device fails, it may open the return circuit to the earth ground. The user of the device could become a part of the device's electrical circuit by providing a return path for the electrons through the user's body instead of the circuit's earth ground. When our body becomes part of an electrical circuit, the user can be seriously shocked, or even killed by electrocution.

To prevent the danger of electrical shock and the possibility of electrocution, ground fault interrupts devices detect open circuits to earth ground in attached electrical or electronic devices. When an open circuit to earth ground is detected, the G.F.I. device immediately opens the voltage source to the device. G.F.I. devices are similar to circuit breakers but are designed to protect humans rather than circuit components.

Short circuits are circuits that get back to the power source unused or with the same power as put out. Using these usually blow a fuse but sometimes they don't. Doing this with a battery can cause electrical fires.


Quiz

A quiz is a type of game in which players (as individuals or in teams) try to answer questions correctly. Quizzes are also used in education and similar fields to improve the growth of someone's knowledge, abilities, and/or skills. 

Quizzes are usually scored in points. Many quizzes are designed for people to determine the winner of a group of participants - usually the participant with the highest score.

John Hancock

John Hancock (January 12, 1737 – October 8, 1793) was an early American patriot, a leader in the American Revolutionary War, and an American statesman. He was the first man to sign America's Declaration of Independence. In modern America, "John Hancock" is a synonym for signature.

Hancock's ancestors arrived in the English colonies in 1652. In 1737, Hancock was born in Braintree (now Quincy, Massachusetts). When John Hancock Jr. his father died, he was adopted by his uncle, a merchant in Boston, Massachusetts. At his uncle's death in 1754, Hancock inherited the business. He became a leading merchant in Boston and one of the richest in the colonies. 

In 1768, British officials seized his ship, the "Liberty". It carried a shipment of wine. The officials said he was smuggling. Boston patriots rioted and he was acquitted. This incident was one of the events that led to the American Revolutionary War.

Hancock had several important jobs in Colonial America and the early United States of America. He was president of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress in 1774 and 1775. He used his money to support American independence. The British thought him a very dangerous man.

Hancock was president of the Continental Congress in 1774 and 1775. He wanted to lead the Continental Army. George Washington got the job instead. With 5,000 troops, he tried to free Rhode Island from the British. He was not successful.

Hancock led the convention that adopted the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780. He was first Governor of the state Massachusetts. He served nine terms. Hancock suffered from gout in his later life. He died in 1793.

Huldrych Zwingli

Huldrych (or Ulrich) Zwingli or Ulricus Zuinglius (January 1, 1484 – October 11, 1531) was the leader of the Protestant Reformation in Switzerland and the founder of the Swiss Reformed churches. Separately from Martin Luther, Zwingli arrived at similar final beliefs by studying the Bible from the point of view of a humanist scholar.

His father was also called Ulrich Zwingli, and his mother was Margaret Meili. Zwingli had two sisters and seven brothers.

Zwingli was born in Toggenburg, Wildhaus, St. Gallen, Switzerland, to an important family in the middle class. 

Zwingli's Reformation was supported by the judge and the people of Zürich. That led to major changes in the lives of the people and the government in Zürich.

Zwingli was killed at Kappel am Albis in a battle against the Roman Catholic cantons of Switzerland.


20th-century classical music

20th-century classical music is classical music written during the last century. During earlier periods of music history composers from different countries wrote in styles which were often quite similar. For example, composers in the Classical music period (about 1740-1820) had fairly similar ideas about what forms to use (e.g. sonata form), what instruments should be used in orchestras or how to write good tunes.

Classical music from the 20th century is extremely varied. There are lots of different “schools” (meaning: ways of thinking) as lots of composers had their own ideas about how to compose in ways that were different from what had been done before. A lot of these genres (types of music) had names ending in “ism”: there was serialism, Expressionism, Neoclassicism, Impressionism as well as jazz, world music (music from non-European cultures) and folksong and, later on electronic music and then Minimalism and even post-modernism.

The names of periods in history were usually given to them many years afterwards. For example, the term Middle Ages was not used until long after the Middle Ages had finished. It is difficult to know what to call the period we live in now. In music people often talk about “Modern Music” meaning any music written after 1900. We also talk about “Contemporary Music” meaning more or less the same thing (“contemporary” means “things that are happening in our time”, i.e. “living composers”). Now that the 21st century has started some musicians are starting to talk about “20th century music” (1900-2000) and a period called “Contemporary Music” (1975-today).

This article will discuss classical music written from 1900 to the year 1999.

Many European composers at the beginning of the 20th century felt that the system of tonality (music in major and minor keys) had been used for so long that it was time to do create a new approach and try something different. Arnold Schoenberg and Igor Stravinsky were two of the most important composers at that time, and they had very different ideas about how to compose music.

Schoenberg's music became very atonal (not in any key). Eventually he developed what he called twelve tone music. This was atonal music which was organized by putting the notes of a musical idea in a particular order which could be changed in many ways during the piece. This way of organizing music is called “serialism” (a “series” is a “row of things”). Many composers were influenced by Schoenberg, especially Alban Berg and Anton von Webern.

Stravinsky came from Russia. He was inspired by Russian culture. He wrote some music for a ballet called Rite of Spring. This music was very new. It had very irregular rhythms which the dancers found very difficult to dance to at first. It also used polytonality (being in more than one key at once). Later on Stravinsky was inspired by music from the 18th century. He used it, but made changes to it, adding dissonant notes and strange chords. This is called neoclassicism (“neo” means “new”). Stravinsky's music seemed to many people to be the opposite of serialism, but in his last years Stravinsky started to use serialism as well.

In France a movement called Impressionism was popular with painters. Composers were very interested in these paintings. Claude Debussy wrote music which is often called “Impressionistic”. The ideas of clear tonality (being clear about which key the music is in) are often deliberately blurred. He uses interesting chords just for the sound that they make. He used the whole tone scale and pentatonic scale and was inspired by Javanese music. Maurice Ravel’s music is sometimes similar, although he developed his own style. Later French composers include Olivier Messiaen who used a system of new scales which he called Modes of limited transposition. He was also interested in music from around the world, and he also used bird song in his music.

While all this was happening there were some composers who continued to write in a style which was basically Romantic. Edward Elgar ‘s music is often described as “Edwardian” (from the period of King Edward VII). Other British composers of the time were also inspired by English folkmusic, i.e. Ralph Vaughan Williams, George Butterworth, Roger Quilter and Gerald Finzi. Frederick Delius wrote Romantic music which was also quite Impressionistic. The Russian Sergei Rachmaninoff and the German Richard Strauss continued to write in a Romantic style until their deaths in the 1940s. The Finnish composer Jean Sibelius and the Dane Carl Nielsen wrote great symphonies which were still in a tonal style, and in Italy Puccini was writing operas in a Romantic style, often called “verismo” (“like real life”).

In Russia, which became the Soviet Union after the 1917 Revolution, composers were not allowed to be experimental. It was difficult for them because they had to please the politicians who told them that their music should reflect “Socialist realism” (meaning the workers’ struggle against capitalism). The great tradition of writing symphonies continued with Sergei Prokofiev (who spent some time in exile) and Shostakovich (who remained in the Soviet Union).

The Hungarian composer Béla Bartók developed a modern style influenced by folk music from his country and other East European countries. His music is often quite neoclassical, for example the famous "Concerto for Orchestra".

In the mid-20th century a group of composers known as the “Darmstadt School” (because they often met in Darmstadt) continued to write music which was based on serialism. This included Pierre Boulez and Karlheinz Stockhausen. Many of them, including both Boulez and Stockhausen, also experimented with electronic music. The term Avant Garde is often used to describe their music. It means that it expands the limits, or pushes ahead into new ground (literally the “front guard”, a military analogy). Other American composers were experimental, e.g. Charles Ives and John Cage who is famous for using a “prepared piano” (a piano which makes strange sounds because strange objects are put inside it).

In America jazz was a big influence on classical composers. George Gershwin’s music is halfway between jazz and classical. Aaron Copland and Leonard Bernstein used jazz elements in their music. In Europe many composer used ideas from jazz, e.g. Maurice Ravel and Kurt Weill.

Around the 1960s some composers thought that a lot of music was getting too complicated. Music of the avant garde school such as Edgard Varèse, Elliott Carter, Milton Babbitt was becoming too difficult for people to understand. People found it too mathematical and intellectual. They wanted music with feeling and emotion. A group of composers developed a style called Minimalism which uses music based around a simple idea which repeats itself again and again but gradually changes. Steve Reich, Philip Glass, Terry Riley, John Cage and to some extent John Adams all used minimalist techniques. It was a reaction against music that had become too complicated.

While all these different schools of thought were coming and going there were still some composers who managed to keep to a more traditional path and find new ways to use tonality in their music. The greatest figure in British music was Benjamin Britten who was an eclectic composer (i.e. he took ideas from many different people). Two other great composers were Michael Tippett and William Walton, who each developed their own style. In America there were composers such as Samuel Barber, Roy Harris and Alan Hovhaness. In Germany Paul Hindemith was one of the most important composers. Like Kurt Weill, he often wrote music which had a political purpose, but Weill's music is more jazz-inspired.

Some contemporary composers (alive today) write music which is deeply religious. These include John Tavener and Arvo Pärt. John Rutter and Bob Chilcott, who write music for choirs which sounds fresh and attractive to new audiences. Other composers have found various ways of creating their own style, e.g. the Scottish composers James MacMillan and Judith Weir and the Master of the Queen's Music: Sir Peter Maxwell Davies. In Russia Sofia Gubaidulina and Galina Ustvolskaya are important voices in the search for new music.

Cuxhaven

Cuxhaven ( , ; ) is an independent town and seat of Cuxhaven, in Lower Saxony, Germany. The town includes the northernmost point of Lower Saxony. It is on the shore of the North Sea at the mouth of the Elbe River. Cuxhaven has a footprint of (east–west) by (north–south). Its town quarters Duhnen, Döse and Sahlenburg are popular vacation spots on the North Sea and home to about 52,000 residents.

The town is served by Cuxhaven station.

The island of Neuwerk is off the coast from Cuxhaven.

Cuxhaven is twinned with:


Haifa Wehbe

Haifa Wehbe (, born March 10, 1972) is a female Lebanese singer, actress, model, and jewelry designer who is known in the Arab world. Wehbe was born in a rural town in South Lebanon and currently lives in Beirut. She started her music career with her debut album "Huwa az-Zaman" (, "It is Time").

Before she became a singer, she was a model. She won title "Miss South Lebanon" when she was sixteen. In 1995, she was the runner-up for Miss Lebanon before the public found out she had a daughter named Zeinab.

Her second 2005 album was "Baddi 'Ayš" (, "I Want to Live"). Her second songs was "Ana Haifa" ("I am Haifa").

She also appeared in Pepsi ad with French footballer Thierry Henry.


Dynamics (music)

In music, the dynamics in the piece is the variation in loudness between notes or phrases. 

In written music the dynamics are shown by letters which stand for Italian words for the dynamic levels. They are listed in the table below. Notice that “piano”, as a dynamic level, is pronounced the Italian way (“pi-AH-no”).

Use more than two ps or fs to show that the music is very, very quiet, or very, very loud. Tchaikovsky sometimes used five ps or fs, though only up to three are normally found in sheet music.

Dynamic levels are not something that can be measured exactly. Exactly how loud mp should be depends on several things: what is happening in the music, the instrument, the size of the room in which the music is being played etc. The important thing is that dynamic levels should be correct in relation to one another.

Some composers are very precise about writing the dynamics they want. Others leave a lot to the performer to decide. Historically, composers several centuries ago, such as Bach, only wrote occasional dynamic marks. Even Mozart only wrote a few, mostly p and f. By the 19th century composers were writing dynamics in much more detail in their music.
Sometimes accents are shown by marks similar to dynamic marks. "Sforzando" means a strong, sudden accent and is abbreviated as sf, sfz or fz. The notation sfzp (or sfp) means a "sforzando" followed immediately by "piano"

The terms "crescendo", and "diminuendo" (or sometimes "decrescendo"), mean a gradual getting louder or quieter. They can also be shown by signs known as "hairpins". A hairpin opening out is a "crescendo", one which closes is a "diminuendo".

For a quick change in dynamics, molto cresc. and molto dim. are often used ("molto" means "a lot"). For slow changes poco a poco cresc. and poco a poco dim. are used ("poco a poco" means "little by little", i.e. very gradually.)

Francesco Botticini

Francesco Botticini (real name Francesco di Giovanni, 1446 – 16 January 1498) was an Italian painter. He lived in the early part of the Renaissance period. He was born in Florence about 1446 and is best known for his painting called "Assumption of the Virgin".

He died in 1497 or 1498. After he had been an assistant to the painter Neri di Bicci he started his own workshop. The shop was famous for its decorative works, a few of which can be seen in the cloistered church of Empoli. Botticini was influenced by Filippino Lippi and Botticelli who were two very famous Florentine painters.


Grana Padano

Grana Padano is a type of hard cheese. It is similar to parmesan cheese. The name comes from the noun "grana" (‘grain’), which refers to the distinctively grainy texture of the cheese, and the adjective "Padano", which refers to the river Po.

Grana Padano was created by the Cistercian monks of Chiaravalle. They used ripened cheese as a way of preserving extra milk. By the year 1477, it was regarded as one of the most famous cheeses of Italy. Today, this product is made in the regions of Piedmont, Lombardy and Veneto, and in the province of Trento.

Like Parmigiano Reggiano, Grana Padano is a semi-fat hard cheese which is cooked and ripened slowly (for up to 18 months). It is produced by curdling the milk of grass-fed cows. The cows are milked twice a day, the milk is left to stand, and then partially creamed. It is produced all year round and the quality can vary seasonally as well as by year.
A wheel of Grana Padano is cylindrical, with slightly convex or almost straight sides and flat faces. The rind, which is thin, is white or straw yellow.

Grana Padano cheese has been produced since the 12th century, and production and quality are now overseen by the Consorzio per la Tutela del Formaggio Grana Padano.


North American Free Trade Agreement

The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was a trade agreement between Mexico, the United States, and Canada. The agreement was signed by U.S. President George H.W. Bush, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, and Mexican President Carlos Salinas on December 17, 1992 in San Antonio, Texas, and took effect on January 1, 1994. It removed taxes on products traded between the United States, Canada, and Mexico. It also protects copyrights, patents, and trademarks between those three countries. It was updated with the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation, which helped set more environment regulations and helped reduce pollution. It was also updated with the North American Agreement for Labor Cooperation, which helped people fight for better work conditions.

On September 30, 2018, it was announced that the United States, Mexico, and Canada had come to an agreement to replace NAFTA with the United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement (USMCA).

Since it took away taxes between products traded between the US, Canada, and Mexico. Mexico has been buying more products from the US. It saved U.S. companies on the cost of selling products to Mexico, and it saved Mexican companies on the cost of buying things from U.S. companies.

A benefit of the bill is that labels on products exchanged between the three countries come in French, English, and Spanish. That way, Mexicans and Americans who speak Spanish can read the Spanish label, Americans and Canadians can read the English label, and Canadians who speak French can read the French label.

NAFTA also encourages more immigration from Mexico to the US. Since small businesses can no longer be protected by tariffs, many small business owners in Mexico cannot compete with the prices of subsidized products from the US and therefore many of them have gone under, or they lost more money than they could make. As a result, many Mexicans have gone to the US looking for work. The human rights organization EZLN (Ejército Zapatista de la Liberación Nacional), a revolutionary Mexican grass roots movement, is a strong opponent of NAFTA and points out how its provisions only make the economic situation worse for the poorest in Mexico and better for multi-national corporations.

Small Business Chronicle

With the increased ease by which Mexico can import food products from the United States, the role of Mexican farmers is overwhelmed by the output of American farming. This is a notable con of NAFTA. According to Thomas Net Industry Market Trends, over 1 million Mexican farmers have lost their jobs as a result of the agreement.

The American economy lost about 683,000 jobs thanks to NAFTA—more than 60% of which were in the manufacturing sector. Almost 35,000 Ohioans found themselves unemployed, or without jobs, thanks to a free trade agreement that's been a disaster for our nation’s industrial base. - Sharrod Brown

It was possible that NAFTA would encourage Mexican citizens to stay in their country since their manufacturing work could still reach the American market easily. But since the creation of NAFTA, illegal immigration between Mexico and the United States has only gotten worse. Over the 10-year period between 1990 and 2000, the number of illegal immigrants per year doubled, or increased two times, despite the creation of NAFTA in 1994, according to Thomas Net Industry Market Trends. NAFTA not being more effective in preventing the immigration crisis is a disadvantage to the agreement.


Language revival

Language revival is people trying to make a language spoken often again when it is not spoken or is spoken very little. Language death happens when a language is not used by the people who used to speak it.

Language revival tries to save a language that is dead or endangered. The Hebrew language was once a language that was not spoken, but the language was revived, and people now speak and use it again. Many people are now trying to revive their languages. The revival of languages is useful as it can give insight to older languages.

John Travolta

John Joseph Travolta (born February 18, 1954) is an American actor, dancer and singer.

The youngest of six children, John Joseph Travolta was born and raised in Englewood, New Jersey. His father, Salvatore Travolta (November 1912 – May 1995), was a semi-professional American football player of Italian descent. His mother, Helen Cecilia (née Burke, January 1912 – December 1978), was an Irish-American actress and singer. He was raised Roman Catholic, but changed to Scientology in 1975. 

Travolta was engaged with Diana Hyland who died of breast cancer in 1977, they met while filming "The Boy in the Plastic Bubble". He married actress Kelly Preston in 1991. The couple had a son, Jett (1992–2009). Their daughter, Ella Bleu, was born in 2000. On May 18, 2010, Travolta and Preston said she was pregnant with the couple's third child. Later they said it would be a boy. Their son, Benjamin, was born on November 23, 2010 in Florida. 

He starred in the movies "Grease" with Olivia Newton-John, "Pulp Fiction" with Samuel L. Jackson and "Hairspray".

His wife, Kelly Preston died of breast cancer in July 2020.

Ukrainian

Ukrainian might mean:


Objectivity (science)

Objectivity in science means that scientific ideas and measurements are tested. That means they are independent from the individual scientist (the subject) who proposes them. In other words, if scientist A claims something, scientist B must be able to check whether A is right.

The evidence can (in principle) be shown to anyone who doubts it. The "in principle" bit is because some science needs complex machinery, and if you don't understand the machinery, you won't understand the results. But elementary science can often be shown in a classroom, or on television.

Some science does need a proper scientific education. To some extent the general public has to trust a qualified scientist to present the idea in some suitable form. That means on television or on the web, or perhaps in published articles or books. Most awards of the Nobel Prize in science are followed by presentations on various web channels.

It is generally agreed that, at least in some subjects, modern science needs a person to have some education before they can understand it. Specialist communicators often do this on television or the web. 150 years ago, people read science directly from books written by scientists like Faraday and Darwin. Now most people get their science from people who act as communicators of science.

To avoid the variety in subjective (ambiguous) interpretation of quantifying terms such as "green", "hot", "large", "considerable", and "negligible", scientists try hard, where possible, to eliminate human senses by use of standardized measuring tools (meter stick, stopwatch, thermometer, etc.) and mechanical/electronic measuring instruments (spectrometer, voltmeter, timer, oscilloscope, gravimeter, etc.) for performing the actual measuring process, eliminating much of the perceptive variability of individual observers. The results of measurements are expressed on a numerical scale of standard units - so that everybody else understands them the same way. Where data must need be used, the ideal is to use "hard", "objective" criteria for assigning the classifications (see definition), such that different classifiers would get the same results.


Roundhay Garden Scene

Roundhay Garden Scene is a short movie made on October 14, 1888 in the garden of "Oakwood Grange", Roundhay, Leeds, West Yorkshire, England. It was made by a French man named Louis Le Prince. It was silent. The movie had Adolphe Le Prince, Sarah Whitley, Joseph Whitley, and Harriet Hartley walking in the garden of Oakwood Grange. It is believed to be the oldest surviving movie by many people. It is 1.66 seconds long. The digitalized version lasts 2.11 seconds.


Herpetology

Herpetology is the branch of zoology concerned with reptiles and amphibians. It is about cold-blooded animals like salamanders, frogs, toads, snakes, lizards, turtles, tuataras and crocodilians.
"Herp" is a vernacular term for reptiles and amphibians. It is derived from the old term "herpetile". Linnaeus grouped reptiles and amphibians together in the same class, and that is where the term comes from. The term has persisted, particularly in the names of herpetology, the scientific study of reptiles and amphibians, and herpetoculture, the captive care and breeding of reptiles and amphibians. There are over 6700 species of amphibians and over 9000 species of reptiles. 
Batrachology is the study of amphibians. Batrachology can also mean that a person enjoys amphibians and are among their favorite pets.

Hector Barbossa

Captain Hector Barbossa is a fictional character and a recurring antagonist of the "Pirates of the Caribbean" franchise. He appeared in the first five movies of the series. 

At first he was the main antagonist as an undead pirate in "" (2003). The character dies at the end of the movie, however, he is revealed to have been brought back to life at the end of "". 

He later became an antihero in supporting roles as a Pirate Lord in "" (2007), a privateer with the Royal Navy in "" (2011), and finally as the rich pirate in "" (2017).

He is seen as the evil version of Captain Jack Sparrow.

Alpha Kappa Alpha

Alpha Kappa Alpha is the first sorority founded by African-American women. The sorority was founded on January 15, 1908, at Howard University. The sorority has more than 300,000 women in over one thousand chapters. They are in the United States, the Caribbean, Germany, Korea and Japan.


Objectivity

Objectivity can mean:



Fraud

Fraud (or defrauding or scamming) is a crime in which someone tricks somebody else to get unfair or unlawful gain. Frauds are almost always about money, either directly or indirectly. 

A "fraudster" or a "fraud" is the person who commits the fraud. "Fraudulence" is the adjective, as in "He tried to pass a fraudulent cheque." To "defraud" someone is to commit a fraud against them. 

Fraudsters may find people to defraud by phone calls, emails, or websites. Fraud often starts by saying there is a free or low price item. The fraudster then asks for personal information, such as a home address and bank account numbers. Instead of giving an item, the fraudster takes their money. Fraudsters often target senior citizens.

Fraud is a criminal wrong: a fraudster may be prosecuted and imprisoned. It is also a civil wrong: a fraud victim may sue the fraudster to get compensation.

All societies have laws against fraud, but the details differ in each jurisdiction. In England an Act of Parliament defines three kinds of fraud.
Lesser cases are heard in a Magistrates' Court; more serious offences are tried in the High Court (jury proceedings).


Pump

A pump is a machine which moves a liquid from one place to another, often upwards.

Pumps need some kind of power, often kinetic energy, to make them work. Sometimes the power comes from a person. Sometimes the power comes from a motor.

There are many different kinds of pumps. Some types of pumps are:



Alpha (disambiguation)

Alpha may mean: 
Alpha, a letter in the Greek alphabet. α may be used as the symbol for:







Ioan P. Culianu

Ioan Petru Culianu (January 5, 1950–May 21, 1991) was a Romanian historian of religion, culture, ideas, philosopher, political essayist, poet, mystic and short story writer.

He was 41 when he was shot in the head in the men's room in his University, Divine School where he was teaching on May 21 1991. At times he preached against communism and its system of brainwashing youth. It is alleged that he was killed on the orders of outgoing Romanian Communist Party leaders.


Single (music)

In popular music marketing, a single is a record release with only one or two songs. The first song (usually the one given the most promotion, and heard more often in the media) is called an A-side, while any other song on the single is called a B-side.

The pairing of recordings on a single comes from the days of shellac and vinyl records, when discs had two playable sides. Modern compact disc singles may contain more than one version of either the A- or B-side, or sometimes an additional recording by the same performer. B-sides may be selections from an album, or songs not otherwise issued for sale.

Many times the chance to get a new song issued as an A-side creates competition between members of bands, or teams of songwriters. John Lennon and Paul McCartney of the Beatles tried to write better songs than each other, to get more A-sides than the other. George Harrison, also a Beatle, rarely had his songs chosen for singles, but had a hit with "Something" for the band. 

In the days of vinyl singles, royalties for both A- and B-sides were paid equally. Many listeners never played B-sides more than once, and radio focused on A-sides. Many people who made recordings knew this, and used it to earn extra money from sales, or to promote other music they made. Phil Spector sometimes used short jam sessions by his studio band as B-sides to singles he produced. 

Michael Nesmith of the Monkees wanted his songs to appear on Monkees singles. He would settle for B-sides, if he could not get an A-side. Don Kirshner, who oversaw the band's early music, wanted the B-sides to come from other songwriters who worked for him. Nesmith and Kirshner disagreed, and it caused tension for the Monkees and their company.

Records that include more than two or three songs are usually called EPs (for "extended play"), and may include four or more distinct songs, but not as many as on an album.


Captain America

Captain America is a fictional superhero from the Marvel Comics. He made his first appearance in the comic book "Captain America Comics #1" in 1941"." He wears a suit that has a white star on his chest with 2 stripes (still white) on each side next to the star. His suit is blue. He also has an indestructible shield with a bullseye and a star on the front of it. He is also known as his alter ego Steve Rogers. Captain America had a sidekick (friend), Bucky who later became the Winter Soldier, is a very good fighter, both hand-to-hand and using his guns to take care of his enemies easily. Captain America has an nemesis called Red Skull. He later joins a team called the Avengers to help protect the world.

Although Captain America has enhanced body strength, speed, agility, endurance, reflexes, reaction time, and natural self-healing ability, he actually has no superpowers. The reason why he has all these abilities is because of the Super Soldier Serum.

He first appeared in the serial (film) Captain America, which was from 1940.

He appears in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, played by Chris Evans. He was in "" (2011), "" (2014) and "" (2016), as well as Marvel's "The Avengers" (2012), and (2015), (2018), and (2019).

In 1966, Joe Simon (one of the people who helped make Captain America) sued Marvel, saying that he was the one who should be able to use the character, not them. It was agreed that Captain America was made under the publisher's rules, and belonged to them. This meant that Marvel won. 

Objectivity (journalism)

Objectivity is a significant principle of journalistic professionalism. It involves presenting information that can be relied upon.

Objectivity may have several meanings in the eye of the public. "Fairness" involves making sure that multiple sides of an issue are presented. "Disinterestedness" means that the presenters are neutral in a story in which the people involved try to influence them. "Factuality" bases story content on facts that can be checked by an independent agent. "Nonpartisanship" means not taking sides, especially on political matters. Depending on the topic of a story, any or all of these factors may be relevant in the journalist's remaining objective.

The editorial board of media outlets such as the press or broadcast news chooses what information to present, so the editors' selection may be biased toward one position or belief system.

In many countries, "advocacy journalism," which supports a particular position, is considered as a legitimate sort of professional journalism. These stories may be either news or analysis. They may or may not be objective.

Few journalists would make a claim to total neutrality or impartiality. However, most try to keep distance from their own personal biases in their news work. In "Discovering the News" (1978), sociologist Michael Schudson argues that "the belief in objectivity is a faith in 'facts,' a distrust in 'values,' and a commitment to their segregation." In the United States, an objective story is typically considered to be one that steers a middle path between two poles of political rhetoric. 
Journalism without any bias, as if one just came to Earth from another planet and had no opinions about our behavior or ways is rarely practiced, although some argue it would lead to radical changes in reporting. (See, for example, Noam Chomsky, The Journalist from Mars.)



Genesis Nomad

The Genesis Nomad is a portable video game console released by the Sega Corporation. It has a colour screen and can play most games designed for the Sega Mega Drive/Genesis.

It cannot be used with the Sega CD and Sega 32X unless special modifications are made. But such special modifications may not be safe.

Fewer than one million Genesis Nomads were sold. 

Erlasee Solar Park

The Erlasee Solar Park is in one of the sunniest regions of Germany. On the former wine-producing Erlasee estate near Arnstein in Bavaria, in southern Germany, SOLON has constructed what is currently the largest tracking photovoltaic solar power station in the world with an output of 12 MW. Just under 1,500 "SOLON-Movers" modules convert sunlight into environmentally friendly power, generating as much as the average consumption of the nearby town of Arnstein. 

The solar power plant cost £35 million and covers 77 hectares of land.



Khula

Khula is the right of a woman to ask her husband for a divorce and to offer him a compensation in case he does so. Following the Sharia the husband has no right to ask for a compensation of a higher value than that what he gave his wife when they married. 

After divorce the former husband is responsible for education, food and residence of children. The children live with the mother for 7 years. After 7 years children have the right to live with father or mother, as they decide.

Hashemi Rafsanjani

Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (, "Akbar Hāshemī Rafanjānī"), Hashemi Bahramani (; August 25, 1934 – January 8, 2017) was an influential Iranian politician. He has been the Chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council of Iran from 1989 until his death in 2017.

"Forbes" magazine listed Rafsanjani in their list of richest people in the world and has written that as the real power behind the Iranian government, he "has more or less run the Islamic Republic for the past 24 years." His wealth has earned him the infamous nickname of "Akbar Shah" in Iran.

Rafsanjani was President of Iran from 1989 to 1997, losing on the second ballot to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in the 2005 election on his attempt for a third term in office. After this, he has tried to use his position in the Expediency Council to denounce President Ahmadinejad's administration. He said he would do some privatizations and change foreign policy. However, President Ahmadinejad has noted Rafsanjani's failure to make a difference between privatization and self takeover of government-owned companies. Ahmadinejad has also commmented on the foreign policies of Rafsanjani's administration which lead to sanctions against Iran in 1995 and 1996.

Currently, one of his sons has been accused of receiving a bribe. Analysts expect that his son will not be put on trial, however. 

Rafsanjani died on January 8, 2017 in Tehran from a heart attack, aged 82.



Evander Holyfield

Evander Holyfield (born October 19, 1962) is an American boxer. He held both the world heavyweight championship and the world cruiserweight championship. He also won a bronze medal at the 1984 Summer Olympics.

Holyfield was born in Atmore, Alabama. He became a professional boxer in 1984 and won the cruiserweight championship from Dwight Muhammad Qawi in 1986. He moved to the heavyweight division in 1988 and won the world championship from James "Buster" Douglas in 1990. He defended the title three times, including fights against former champions Larry Holmes and George Foreman. He lost the title to Riddick Bowe in 1992 but won it back the next year. In 1994 he lost to Michael Moorer and briefly retired. He soon fought again, however, and surprised many by knocking out Mike Tyson in 1996. He had a draw against Lennox Lewis in 1998 and then lost a rematch to him in 1999. 

In 2005, Holyfield was a contestant on season 1 of "Dancing with the Stars". He was a housemate in the January 2014 series of Celebrity Big Brother (UK). 


Porthmadog F.C.

Porthmadog Football Club is a football team, playing in the Cymru North. The club was started in 1884.


Sharia

Sharia, Sharia law or Islamic law is a set of religious principles which form part of the Islamic culture. The Arabic word "sharīʿah" () refers to the revealed law of God and originally meant "way" or "path".

Classical sharia deals with many aspects of public and private life, including religious rituals, family life, business, crimes, and warfare. In former times, sharia was interpreted by independent jurists, who based their legal opinions on Qur'an, Hadith and centuries of debate, interpretation and precedent. Some parts of sharia can be described as "law" in the usual sense of that word, while other parts are better understood as rules for living life in accordance with God's will.

Countries in the Muslim world all have their own laws. In most of them only a small part of the legal system is based on classical sharia. Muslims disagree on how sharia should be applied.

People of different religions who speak Arabic use the word "sharīʿah" to describe a religious tradition that comes from teachings of prophets. Christians and Jews in the Middle East have used it to describe their own religion. For many Muslims the word "sharia" means simply "justice". They will say that any law agrees with sharia as long as it helps to build a more fair and prosperous society.

Most Muslims believe sharia should be interpreted by experts in Islamic law. In Arabic, the word "sharīʿah" refers to God's revelation, which does not change. In contrast, the rules of behavior created by scholars as they try to understand God's revelation are called "fiqh". These rules can change and Islamic scholars have often disagreed about them.

Scholars disagree about the origins of the word "sharia". Some say that "sharia" comes from the old Arabic word meaning "pathway to be followed". This would make it similar to "halakha" (the way to go), the Hebrew word for Jewish law. Other scholars think that the word "sharia" originally meant "path to the water hole". They say that knowing the way to a water hole could save a man's life in the deserts of Arabia, and that is why this word came to refer to God's guidance to man.

Islamic scholars who lived during the first centuries of Islam developed different methods for interpreting sharia. Most of them came to agree that sharia rules should be derived from the following main sources:

The process of deriving sharia rules from the Qur'an and hadith is called "ijtihad". Sharia rules classify actions into one of the following categories:

These acts have "material or moral" provisions in the understanding of Sharia. The abandonment of the actions "that are considered fard, wajib and sunnah", and doing the forbidden ones "that are considered makruh and haram" are penalized. (hadd or tazir punishments). E.g.; Beating, imprisoning and killing those who insist on not praying can be considered in this context.

Sharia in Islam is viewed as the revealed law of God, which cannot be altered. On the other hand, its interpretation, called "fiqh", is the work of legal scholars, who have frequently differed in their legal opinions. Some parts of sharia are similar to what people in the West call "law", while other parts are better understood as rules for living life in accordance with God's will.

There are several schools of legal thought in Islam, of which the most important are the Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i and Hanbali schools of Sunni Islam and the Ja'fari school of Shia Islam.

The divisions of sharia are called "branches" ("furu") in Arabic. The main branches are "ibadat" (rituals or acts of worship) and "mu'amalat" (human interactions or social relations). These branches are divided into many smaller branches, some of which are listed bellow:


The Five Pillars of Islam are:


There are two festivals that are considered Sunnah.

There are some special rituals used during these festivals:

Islamic law lists only some specific foods and drinks that are not allowed.

While Islamic law prohibits already-dead meat, this does not apply to fish and locusts. Also, hadith literature prohibits beasts having sharp canine teeth, birds having claws and talons in their feet, tamed donkeys, and any piece cut from a living animal.

There are some specific rules regarding the killing of animals in Islam.


Sharia recognises three categories of crime:

Although there is some disagreement about which crimes are "hudud" crimes, they usually include theft, highway robbery, zina (sex with forbidden partners), falsely accusing someone of "zina", and drinking alcohol. The prescribed punishments for these crimes range from 80 lashes to death. However, classical jurists developed very strict rules which restrict when these punishments could be applied, so that in many cases it became almost impossible to convict anyone under these rules. For example, there must be four adult male Muslim witnesses to a hudud crime or a confession repeated four times, before someone can be punished. If a criminal could not be convicted of a "hudud" crime, they could still receive a "tazir" punishment.
In the historical practice, qisas appears in two ways. One of them is the punishment of the perpetrator with a “counter-action”, exactly the same as the crime committed, in crimes against the person's bodily integrity; A life for a life, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth... etc.

Another application is related to the social status of the perpetrator and the victim. In the tribal understanding, when a person kills a woman, a slave or an honorable person from another tribe, a person "of similar status from the tribe to which the murderer belongs" will be killed in return. As a general custom, killing the master's to slave, father's to child, husband's to wife was not punished with retaliation, and retaliation was not applied to the man who killed the woman as a rule. The condition of "social equality" in qisas means that; "if a socially inferior person kills someone from the upper class, qisas will be applied", whereas "if someone from the upper class kills someone from the lower class, it cannot be applied". On this pre-Islamic understandings the discussion "whether a Muslim could be executed for a non-Muslim" was added in Islamic period.

In these cases, "compensation (Diya)" can be paid to the family of the murdered person.

The main verse for implementation in Islam is Al Baqara; 178 verse;
": "'Believers! Retaliation is ordained for you regarding the people who were killed. Free versus free, captive versus captive, woman versus woman. Whoever is forgiven by the brother of the slain for a price, let him abide by the custom and pay the price well."

While retaliation is certain in crimes of murder, according to the verse(2:178)), the situation is not clear in the crimes of wounding. For such (an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, etc.) punishments, the expression "This is how we wrote to them (the Children of Israel) in the book", is used. (5: 45)

Murder, bodily injury and property damage - intentional or unintentional - is considered a civil dispute under sharia law. The victim, victim's heir(s) or guardian is given the option to either forgive the offender, demand Qisas (equal retaliation) or accept a compensation (Diyya). Under sharia law, the Diyya compensation received by the victim or victim's family is in cash.

Apostasy is punished by death unless the apostate agreed to return to Islam.

During the Islamic Golden Age, sharia was interpreted by experts in Islamic law ("muftis"), most of whom were independent religious scholars. Anyone could ask them a question about law, and they were expected to give an answer for free. Their legal opinions were called "fatwas".

When there was a legal dispute about family or financial matters, it would be handled in a court headed by a "qadi" (judge). These judges also had a legal education, and they were appointed to their post by the ruler. In simple cases, qadis would pronounce a verdict based on their own knowledge of sharia. In more difficult cases, they would express the details of the case in general terms and ask a mufti for his legal opinion.

Criminal cases were usually handled in "maẓālim" courts. These courts were controlled by the ruler's council. "Mazalim" courts were supposed to follow "the spirit of sharia". Qadis and muftis were present in those courts to make sure the verdicts did not go against it. However, these courts did not necessarily follow the letter of the law, and they had fewer legal restrictions than qadi's courts. "Mazalim" courts also handled complaints against government officials. Their purpose of "mazalim" courts was to "right wrongs" which could not be addressed through procedures of qadi's courts. Less serious crimes were often handled by local police and market inspectors according to local customs, which were only loosely related to sharia.

Non-Muslim communities living under Islamic rule were allowed to follow their own laws. The government kept out of their internal legal affairs, except when there was a dispute between people of different religions. Such cases were handled by a qadi. When that happened, sharia rules gave Muslims some legal advantages over non-Muslims. However, non-Muslims often won cases against Muslims and even against high government officials, because people thought that sharia was a reflection of divine justice which should defend the weak against the powerful.

In the modern era, most parts of the Muslim world came under influence or control of European powers. This led to major changes in the legal systems of these lands. In some cases, this was because Muslim governments wanted to make their states more powerful and they took European states as models of what a modern state should look like. In other cases, it was because Europeans who colonized these lands forced them to abandon parts of Islamic law and follow European laws instead.

In modern times, criminal laws in the Muslim world were widely replaced by codes which were inspired by European laws. Court procedures and legal education were also made similar to European practice. The constitutions of most Muslim-majority states mention sharia in one way or another. However, the classical rules of sharia were preserved mostly in family laws. In earlier times, sharia was interpreted by independent scholars who often disagreed with each other, and all their opinions were never written down in one place. In the modern era, it was the government who controlled the laws. Different states created their own legal codes, where the laws were clearly stated. The governments wanted to make family laws fit better in the modern world, but they still wanted people to view them as laws based on sharia. In order to do this, the scholars who wrote down these laws decided to pick and choose rules from the different legal opinions available in the classical books of law. When some of the laws they picked disagreed with the current norms of society, the government tried to solve this problem by creating additional court procedures. For example, when family laws in some states seemed to treat women unfairly to the population, the government created procedures that made it more difficult for men to take advantage of these laws in an unfair manner.

In the last quarter of the 20th century, many Muslims around the world became disappointed in their governments. These governments had adopted Western ways in their legal systems and other matters, but many people regarded their actions as oppressive, corrupt, and ineffective. More and more Muslims started to think that things would improve if their government returned to Islamic traditions. They began calling for return of sharia, and conservative members of the public wanted the government to deal with crime using all the traditional methods, including "hudud" punishments. In a few countries, the government put some elements of classical criminal law into the legal code. However, in some of these countries (for example, Iran and Sudan) the supreme court has rarely approved the harsher "hudud" punishments, while in the other countries which adopted "hudud" laws (for example, Pakistan and Nigeria), the supreme court never approves them.

In some countries, progressive Muslim reformers have been able to change how the state interprets sharia family laws to make them more fair to women.

Saudi Arabia is an exceptional case in the legal history of the Muslim world. It has always continued to use sharia in different areas of law, and it never codified its laws. Its judges have always tried to follow traditional sharia rules for dealing with crimes, and they often impose harsh punishments that inspire international protests. However, these punishments are not necessarily prescribed by sharia. Judges in Saudi Arabia follow the classical principle which says that "hudud" punishments should be avoided if at all possible, and the punishments which they apply are usually "tazir" punishments which are left to their own choice. Saudi Arabia is often criticized for its public executions, and their frequency has increased in recent decades. Executions became more frequent because the government and courts decided to crack down on violent crime which became more frequent during the 1970s, as also happened in the U.S. and China.




Wadowice

Wadowice () is a town in Poland in Lesser Poland Voivodeship in the mountainous range known as Zakopane region, southeast of Krakow - (former Polish capital).

Pope John Paul II (Karol Wojtyla) was born there on May 18 1920. He also attended elementary and high school there, graduating with honors in 1938.

The town is twinned with 4 others, all in Italy.


Piano duet

A piano duet is a piece of music written for two people to play at one piano. It is often called Piano 4 hands.

To play piano duets the two players sit with one person on the right (playing the high notes) and the other person on the left (playing the low notes). The person on the right is called “Primo” (“First”) and the person on the left is called “Secondo” (“Second”).

Piano duet music is usually printed with the Secondo part on the left-hand page and the Primo part on the right-hand page. Occasionally it is printed with the two parts underneath one another.

Playing piano duets is great fun and an excellent way to become a better musician. Like all group music making, each player has to learn to listen and adapt to what is going on in the other part. Sometimes one player will have to take away his or her hand quickly so that the other player can play the same note immediately afterwards. Sometimes the players have to cross their hands (secondo’s right hand crosses with primo’s left hand).

A lot of the time the primo’s part may have both hands written in the treble clef and the secondo’s part may have both hands written in the bass clef. This can sometimes be confusing at first.

The pedalling is usually done by the secondo player. This is because pedalling is very much about keeping chords going (“sustaining”), and it is the secondo who usually has the chords which give the harmony because these are in the lower part.

There are lots of piano duets available for people to play. Some of these are simple ones written for beginner pianists. Some are written by the great composers.

Some pieces that are really supposed to be played by an orchestra have been arranged for piano duet. In some cases the composer himself made this arrangement. Examples from famous composers include Stravinsky’s "Rite of Spring" which is extremely hard to play, and Maurice Ravel’s suite "Ma Mère l’Oie".

Some very famous piano duets which were originally written in this form include several sonatas by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, several pieces by Franz Schubert including a "Fantasia in f minor", Gabriel Fauré’s "Dolly Suite", Debussy’s "Petite Suite" and Georges Bizet’s "Jeux d’Enfants" (which he also arranged for orchestra).

Some works are written for two people to play together using two pianos. These are usually called piano duos. Examples include Mozart’s Sonata in D major K448. The Sonata op 34 by Johannes Brahms started as a string quintet but he changed it to a piano concerto, then a piano duo, and eventually a piano quintet. The Suite op 17 by Rachmaninoff is another. Most piano duos are very hard to play and need very good pianists. Piano concertos can be played on two pianos, with one player playing the solo part and the other playing the orchestra’s music.

There is also a small repertoire of pieces for three people to play at one piano. This is called Piano six hands. These pieces are often fun pieces which are not too hard to play, although there are examples of serious pieces. The three people need to be good friends, because it is a bit of a squash. The player at the bottom ought to do the pedalling but it may be easier for the middle player to do it.

Piano six hands

Music described as piano six hands is for three pianists at one piano, as distinct from piano duet which is music for two pianists at one piano, and from piano trio which is music for piano, violin and cello. Not much music has been written for this combination, although there are several arrangements of music originally written for other forces.

Compositions include 5 pieces by Percy Grainger, Sergei Rachmaninoff's Romance and Valse, Alfred Schnittke's Hommage, Carl Czerny's op.17 and 741, Jean Cras's "Âmes d’enfants", Paul Robinson (composer)'s "Pensees" and "Monmartre", various pieces by German composer Armin Fuchs, Bulgarian composer Tomislav Baynov's "Metrorhythmia 1", John Pitts's "Are You Going?", Greek composer Dionysis Boukouvalas's "Fantasy on a theme by Steve Reich", Canadian composer Paul Frehner's "Slowdown" and Italian composer Fabio Mengozzi's "Promenade".

Pedal

A pedal is something that is made to work by someone's foot. The word "pedal" comes from the Latin word for "foot". Many things can be made to work by pedals. These include:


Rice wine

Rice wine is a word some people use to talk about alcoholic drinks. However, it is not a true wine, despite the name. True wine is made by fermenting grapes, and perhaps other fruit. In rice wine, the starch in the rice is first changed into sugar. This sugar is then fermented. This process is more like the fermentation as it is done in beer. 

The "rice wines" made in this manner have more alcohol in them than normal wines (18–25% alcohol compared to 10–14% for normal wines). Beers on the other hand usually have 4–8% alcohol in them.

Many people use the term "rice wine" to refer to sake (which is just one variant of many different kinds of rice wines). 

Alcopop

An alcopop is an alcoholic drink, also known as ready-to-drink (RTD), flavored alcoholic beverage (FAB) or flavored malt beverage (FMB). They are usually available in bottles or cans. They contain about the same amount of alcohol as a beer. Usually, they are very sweet, so that the alcohol can not be tasted. 

There are two different kinds of this drinks. In Europe, they are usually spirits mixed with lemonade, like vodka with lemon juice (and a lot of sugar, so the alcohol cannot be tasted), or rum with fruit juice (also very sweet). In the US, they tend to be beers, which taste very sweet.

Because they are very sweet, alcopops tend to be more popular among young people. Since the fact that they contain alcohol is usually not obvious from the taste, these drinks are considered to be dangerous for young people by many countries. These have either raised the taxes on the drinks, or they have outlawed the sale of these drinks to people under a certain age (usually 18, sometimes 21 years).


Pedal (music)

Pedals on musical instruments are used to control parts of the instrument, or provide extra notes.

There are several musical instruments which have pedals for various reasons.

The piano has at least two pedals; large concert grand pianos always have three. The pedal on the right (operated by the player's right foot) sustains the sound of the notes for as long as the pedal is depressed. It does this by lifting the dampers from the strings. Some of the other strings even start to vibrate as well ("in sympathy").

The pedal on the left makes the sound quieter. It is called the "una corda" pedal (Italian for "one string"). This is because, in the early days of the piano, the una corda pedal made all the hammers move over so that a hammer would only hit one string for each note instead of three (most notes on a piano each have three strings to make a bigger sound). On modern pianos the hammers actually hit two strings instead of just one. They also tend to hit the string at a point where the hammer is softer, away from the grooves which get worn in the hammerhead. On an upright piano the una corda pedal moves the hammers closer to the strings so that they do not hit them so hard.

On pianos which have a middle pedal (called a sostenuto pedal) any note or chord which the player is holding down when the pedal is pressed will be sustained, but any more notes he plays afterwards will not be affected.

On pipe organs there is a pedalboard with pedals which play notes in the same way that the fingers are playing notes. An organ pedalboard usually has two and a half octaves of notes. These are low notes written in the bass clef. An organist has to learn to play with the feet at the same time as with the hands. He uses the toes or the heels of his shoes. It is even possible to play four notes at once (four part chords) but this is very difficult and usually found in some modern French music.

There are seven pedals on a concert harp. Each pedal can be in a high, middle or low position. The strings of the harp can be thought of like the white notes of a piano, tuned to naturals (C,D,E etc.). Each pedal can change one of the letter-named notes one semitone higher or lower. For example: the pedal on the left changes all the Ds to D flat (if the pedal is in the highest position) or D sharp (in the lowest position). From left to right the pedals operate the Ds, Cs, Bs, Es, Fs, Gs and As.

Pedal timpani are timpani with a pedal which will tighten or loosen the drumhead. This will make the note go up or down in pitch. It is a fairly new invention. Composers in the Classical music period never had pedal timpani. Their timpani always had to be tuned by hand using the taps around the side. Composers like Béla Bartók wrote for pedal timpani.

Modern harpsichords often have pedals which change the sound in the same way that stops on an organ change the sound. In earlier harpsichords the sound was more often changed by pushing in or pulling out hand stops.


Alcoholism

Alcoholism is addiction to alcohol. People who have alcoholism are called alcoholics. 

Alcoholism is a disease. It often gets worse over time and can kill a person. However, alcoholism can be treated.

Alcohol is the most commonly used drug in the world. Around the world, there are at least 208 million people with alcoholism. 

Alcoholism is a condition with a social stigma. Because of this, alcoholics often feel ashamed of their drinking. They may try to hide their drinking, avoid getting help, or refuse to believe that they are alcoholics because they are too ashamed.

Being an alcoholic does not mean that a person just drinks a lot of alcohol. It means that they cannot control how much alcohol they drink. No matter how badly they want to, once they take one drink, they cannot stop drinking.

To be diagnosed with alcoholism, a person has to have three of these symptoms in the past year:
There is no medical test, like a blood test, that can say whether a person is an alcoholic. There are some questionnaires (lists of questions) that can help tell whether a person "may" be an alcoholic. These questionnaires include the CAGE questionnaire (for adults) and the CRAFFT Screening Test (for teenagers).

Alcoholism can cause many health problems. For example, it can cause:

If a person drinks too much at one time, they can get alcohol poisoning. This can cause breathing problems, coma, and even death.

In 2012, alcohol use caused 3.3 million deaths around the world. This means that in 2012, about 3 out of every 50 deaths in the world were caused by alcohol use.

Alcoholism can also cause many problems in alcoholics' lives. These include:

If an alcoholic stops drinking suddenly, they can get alcohol withdrawal.

The most serious form of alcohol withdrawal is delirium tremens (often called "DTs"). Delirium tremens is a medical emergency. Many people who get the DTs die from them.

This does not mean that alcoholics should not stop drinking. It means that alcoholics should talk to a doctor or go to a hospital before they stop drinking. Doctors can give medications to make sure that a person is safe while they stop drinking.

In 2010, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that there were 208 million people with alcoholism around the world. (This is 4.1% of the world's population over age 15.) In 2001, the WHO estimated that there were about 140 million alcoholics around the world. This means that in the nine years between 2001 and 2010, about 68 million people became alcoholics. 

People in developed countries drink the most alcohol. 

Alcoholism is more common in some areas than others. Here is a list of all the areas in the world. It is in order from the areas where alcoholism is most common to the areas where it is least common:

There are many reasons why alcoholism is more common in some areas than others. Some of these reasons include religion, culture, laws, and people's attitudes about drinking. For example, on average, people in Northern Africa, the Middle East, and islands in the Indian Ocean drink less than people anywhere else in the world. These are areas where many people are Muslims. Many Muslims in these areas do not drink any alcohol, because the Koran says not to. In some of these countries, drinking alcohol is illegal. 

However, in other areas, like Western Europe, alcohol is a part of daily life. It is legal and easy to get. People very commonly drink alcohol with meals. Very few people drink no alcohol. People's attitudes about alcohol are very different than attitudes in mostly Muslim countries. This is an example of how differences in religion, culture, laws, and attitudes about drinking can affect the amount of alcohol use and alcoholism in different areas. 

Alcoholism is more common in men than in women. However, in the past few decades, the number of female alcoholics has increased. 

Female alcoholics are most common in the Americas and Europe. In the United States and Western Europe, five to ten percent of women will become alcoholics at some point in their lives.

In the Southeast Asian and Western Pacific areas, less than 1% of women are alcoholics. In Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean area, almost no women are alcoholics.

In many countries, young people are using more and more alcohol. In a 2008 WHO survey, underage drinking had increased in 71% of countries. Drinking by young adults (ages 18-25) had increased in 80% of countries.

Lots of things have been tried to get people to drink less alcohol. In 1920 selling alcohol was made illegal in the United States. Less alcohol was drunk but there was more crime. Minimum unit pricing has been tried more recently. The cost of these cheapest alcohol goes up. Fewer people end up in hospital.

Alcoholism can be treated. There are many forms of treatment for alcoholism.

Detoxification (detox) is often the first step in treating alcoholism. "Detoxification" means "getting toxins out of the body." Alcohol detoxification means that the alcoholic stops drinking, so that alcohol (a toxin) can get out of their body. The alcoholic also needs to give their body time to recover from not having alcohol any more.

It is not safe for an alcoholic to suddenly stop drinking on their own. The safest way to stop drinking is to go to a hospital that specializes in alcohol detoxification. These hospitals are often called "detoxes" or "rehabs." These places can make sure that an alcoholic has a safe detox. They can also give medications to make the alcoholic more comfortable, and to prevent symptoms of alcohol withdrawal. The most common medications that doctors give during alcohol detox are benzodiazepines.

Once a person stops drinking alcohol, they are called "sober". Most people need other treatments to help them stay sober.
Detox can be an intense process, and some people experience very strong emotions during it. This is complicated by the fact that, in the past, they may have used drugs or alcohol to help them handle strong emotions. In detox, the therapist helps them manage their emotions.

Psychotherapy and group therapy can help alcoholics stay sober. For example, they can help alcoholics learn how to:

Some medications can help alcoholics stay sober. These medications include:

Many alcoholics do not have enough vitamins in their body. This can cause serious problems. For example, if an alcoholic does not have enough thiamine, they can get brain damage. Often, alcoholics are treated with thiamine to prevent brain damage. They may also be given other vitamins if needed.

Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) is the biggest support and mutual aid group for alcoholics in the world. This means that in AA groups, alcoholics come together to support each other and help each other recover. AA uses a twelve-step program. This program is meant to help alcoholics fix the problems their alcoholism has caused.

There are also other groups for alcoholics, like:




Groups for alcoholics and their families

Sprain

A sprain is a type of injury in which a person hurts the part really bad, but it is not broken. It has common side affects of a broken bone, but it is less serious.

The first degree is only a minor tear or stretch of a ligament.

The second degree is a tear of a ligament, which is usually followed by pain or swelling.

The third degree is a complete rupture.

The typical signs and symptoms associated with a sprain are the main signs of inflammation: 

Although any joint can experience a sprain, some of the more common include:

Sprains can best be prevented by proper use of safety equipment (wrist, ankle guards), warm-ups and cool-downs (including stretching), being aware of your surroundings and maintaining strength and flexibility. Physical conditioning is the best way to avoid or lessen the degree of sprains.


Second Sino-Japanese War

The Second Sino-Japanese War (July 7, 1937 to September 3, 1945) was a major war fought between the Republic of China and the Empire of Japan. It became part of World War II when Japan entered that war on the side of the Axis powers. Part of the Sino-Japanese war was fought in northern Myanmar and northeastern India. The war ended when Japan surrendered after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. It started in 1937 43 years after the First Sino-Japanese War in 1894 led by Emperor Meiji who was the Grandfather of Hirohito.

The Second Sino-Japanese War began when Japan invaded China in 1931. Japan used the Mukden Incident as an excuse to invade China. The invasion grew into a full-scale war after the Marco-Polo Bridge Incident. Japanese officers said that a Japanese soldier got lost and they were allowed to find him in Beiping (now called Beijing). 

Japan invaded China for a few reasons:
While the Imperial Japanese Army was trying to take over China, the KMT (the Nationalist Government under Chiang Kai-Shek) and the CPC (Communist Party of China under Mao Zedong) cooperated a little to try to fight off Japan together. This was called the "Chinese United Front". However, for the most part, they continued to fight each other as well. 

In 1931, the Imperial Japanese Army began to occupy China, starting in the northeast (Manchuria), where they created a puppet state called Manchukuo. In 1937, they occupied Beijing, and then Nanjing. For six weeks in Nanjing, the army committed the Nanjing Massacre. During this massacre, Japanese soldiers killed between 40,000 and 300,000 Chinese people, and raped at least 20,000 women and girls. 

After six weeks, the Japanese Army left Nanjing. It finally occupied the industrial cities in southern China. Chiang moved his capital city from Nanjing to Chongqing, and began a tactic of "using space to trade for time." He was able to spread Japanese soldiers out too thin. This means they were covering too much space with too few soldiers. This made them harder to fight, and made it easier for partisans to fight back in occupied China.

Many soldiers died on both sides at this time. However, in 1940, the Japanese Army stopped being able to move farther into China and take more land. 1940 also marked the point where China began to be able to fight back, instead of Japan continuing to take over the country.

After Japan bombed Pearl Harbor in the United States on December 7, 1941, the Second Sino-Japanese War became part of World War II. It became a part of the area of fighting called the China-Burma-India theatre. The entrance of the United States into the war in Asia meant that the Chinese military forces started receiving lend-lease supplies from the British and Americans over the Burma Road. This helped the Chinese fight back and get much-needed modern weapons. 

The Second Sino-Japanese War had damaged Japan. Instead of winning the war quickly, Japan's military had already been fighting China for four years. This made it much more difficult for Japan to keep fighting (now in the Pacific against the Allied forces). This may have been one reason why Japan eventually lost the war.

In China, the war had some important effects. It made more people support the Chinese Communist Party. It also made Chiang's Republic fall apart more quickly, in 1949.



Ligament

In anatomy, the word ligament usually means the fibrous tissue that joins bones to other bones or cartilages.
A ligament is a short band of tough fibrous connective tissue made of long, stringy collagen fibres. Ligaments join bones to other bones to form a joint. They do "not" connect muscles to bones; that is the function of tendons. Some ligaments limit the amount of movement in a joint, or stop certain movements altogether. 

Ligaments are only slightly elastic; when under tension, they gradually lengthen. This is one reason why dislocated joints must be set as quickly as possible: if the ligaments lengthen too much, then the joint will be weakened. Athletes, gymnasts, dancers, and martial artists perform stretching exercises to lengthen their ligaments, making their joints more supple. 
The result of a broken ligament can be instability of the joint. Not all broken ligaments need surgery, but if surgery is needed to stabilise the joint, the broken ligament can be joined.

Powiat

A county (Polish: "powiat", pronounced "povyat"; plural, "powiaty") is the Polish second-level unit of administration, equivalent to a county, district or prefecture in other countries. A county is part of a larger unit called a "voivodship" (in Polish, "województwo". One would call it in English "province").

Most Polish counties are named after their capital city, or county seat. 
If a county seat has a double-barreled name, as with "Maków Mazowiecki," the county may become either "Maków County" or "Maków-Mazowiecki County." Due, in all but the first case, to the existence, respectively, of two "double-barreled" county seats with the identical noun name, the corresponding adjectives ""bielski"," ""grodziski"," ""ostrowski"" and ""tomaszowski"" each denote "two" distinct counties.

Some Polish urban communes constitute administrative entities called the "urban county" ("powiat grodzki"), similar in local administration and self-governance to "land counties." An average county (the largest being the powiat of Białystok) comprises 5 – 8 communes. The largest urban county, in terms of population and area, is the city of Warsaw. 

The history of Polish counties goes back to the second half of the 14th century. They remained the basic units of territorial organization in Poland, then in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, until the latter's total dismemberment by its neighbors in 1795. 

In the 19th century, the county continued to function in the part of Poland that had been incorporated into the Russian Empire ("Congress Poland"), and as the Polish equivalent of the German ""Kreis"" in the German-governed Grand Duchy of Poznań. 

After Poland regained independence in 1918, the county again became the basic territorial unit throughout Poland. "Powiat"s (counties) were abolished in 1975 in favor of a larger number of voivodships, but were reintroduced in 1999. There are now 314 "land counties" ("powiat ziemski") and 65 "urban counties" ("powiat grodzki"), more formally "municipalities with county status" ("miasto na prawach powiatu").

1. FC Köln

1. FC Cologne, also known by its German name 1. FC Köln or simply just FC Cologne, is a football club that is from Cologne, Germany. The 1. FC KOLN was created in 1948. It was a connection of two football clubs in Cologne (Kölner BC 01 und SpVgg Sülz 07).
In the present day, 1.FC Köln plays in the Bundesliga, the first teir of German football. The club's main rival is Borussia Mönchengladbach, though their Ultrá group WH96 does have friendly connections to The Unity of Borussia Dortmund.



Carolina Gynning

Carolina Gynning (born 6 October 1978) is a Swedish celebrity and model. She also is the winner of the 2004 season of reality television program Big Brother. Gynning has also written the book, "Ego Girl". It is a biography of her early life. In 2008 it was reported that Gynning would write a continuation to "Ego Girl" called "Ego Woman".


Carrie Underwood

Carrie Marie Underwood (born March 10, 1983) is an American country singer-songwriter and actress. She won the fourth season of "American Idol". Her first album, "Some Hearts", has sold 7 million copies. Underwood has won one American Music Award, eight Billboard Music Awards, and two Grammy Awards (including Best New Artist) and more.

Carrie Underwood grew up in Oklahoma, on her family's farm in Checotah. She started singing at a young age, initially at church and later in school plays and talent shows. In 2002 she entered Northeastern State University in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, with intentions to pursue a career in broadcast journalism. She has had fourteen songs reach number one on charts in the United States and Canada, including "Inside Your Heaven", "Jesus, Take the Wheel", and "Before He Cheats". In 2007, Underwood sang during one of the live shows of American Idol, season 6. On December 5, 2013, Underwood appeared in "The Sound of Music Live" on NBC television. She played the heroine Maria von Trapp in the three-hour production. She received critical praise in the "New York Times" for her singing, but was reviewed negatively for her acting.





Nicole Richie

Nicole Camille Richie (born September 21, 1981) is an American socialite, actress, and author. She is the adopted daughter of Lionel Richie, and is best known for being in the reality show "The Simple Life". During late 2007 Nicole Richie faced charges of drunk driving and risked a jail sentence similar to Paris Hilton, her co-star and friend in "The Simple Life". She has had two children with Joel Madden: Harlow and Sparrow Madden. On February 15, 2010, she announced that she was engaged with Madden. They got married later in 2010.

In 2013, Richie was in the video for the song "Let There Be Love" by Christina Aguilera.

Richie is of black, Creole, English, French, French-Canadian, Indigenous Mexican, Mexican, Cherokee Native American, Scottish and Spanish descent.


The Simple Life

The Simple Life is the name of a reality television series originally broadcast on Fox from 2003 to 2005 and on E! from 2006 to 2007. The series stars Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie doing ordinary jobs.


Jordin Sparks

Jordin Brianna Sparks (born December 22, 1989 in Phoenix, Arizona) is an American recording artist, singer and actress. On May 23, 2007, she won the 6th season of the reality television show "American Idol". She was the youngest winner of the talent show. She has released two studio albums "Jordin Sparks" and "Battlefield". She has a vocal range of a mezzo-soprano.


Taylor Hicks

Taylor Reuben Hicks (born October 7, 1976) is an American singer, songwriter and musician. In 2006, he won the fifth season of "American Idol". His runner-up was Katharine McPhee. After he won, he was signed to Arista Records. His album called "Taylor Hicks" was released on December 12, 2006.


Oba Chandler

Oba Chandler (October 11, 1946 in Cincinnati, Ohio - November 15, 2011 in Raiford, Florida) was an American convicted murderer who was executed in Florida for the murders of Joan Rogers and her two teenage daughters. The women's bodies were found floating in the Tampa Bay, Tampa in June 1989. They had been bound and gagged and then tossed into the bay with concrete blocks tied to their necks while still alive.

Billboards where at the later stages of the investigation used in trying to find however did the murders, the billboards that was spread all over Tampa had pictures of the Rogers women and a picture of the hand-writing of the suspected triple murderer. This method had never been used before, and became useful in searches for missing people later on.

Chandler was arrested in September 1992. He was put on trial where he was found guilty of the murders by a 12-member jury. On November 4, 1994 he was sentenced to death by a deadly injection by the judge in the case. Before his execution, Chandler was locked up at Union Correctional Institution in Florida. Author Thomas French in 1998 won the Pulitzer Prize for his article series Angels & Demons which told the story of the murders.

Oba Chandler was born in Cincinnati in the state of Ohio. He was the fourth of five children. His parents were Oba Chandler Sr. and Margaret Johnson. At the age of 10, Chandler's father Oba Chandler Senior hanged himself in the Chandler family's basement. This upset Oba so much that he jumped into his father's grave during the funeral in 1957 while gravediggers were covering the coffin with dirt. Afterwards, Oba's life spun out of control and he was arrested many times and had been arrested 20 times by the time he was a teenager. As an adult, he was charged with a long list of crimes, including theft, having fake money, burglary, kidnapping and armed robbery. Chandler would also father a total of eight children before his arrest, the latest one being Whitney born in February, 1989 with his wife at the time Debra Chandler. Between May and September 1991 Chandler worked as an informant for the US customs Tampa office, at the same time as Tampa police investigated the Rogers family triple murder.

Joan Rogers and her two daughters, Michelle (17 years of age) and Christe (14 years of age) left their family dairy farm on May 26, 1989 in Willshire for a vacation in Florida.

The women's bodies were discovered floating in the Tampa Bay on June 4, 1989 with bound hands and feet with concrete blocks tied to their necks and duct tape over their mouths. The first body was found floating over the Sunshine Skyway bridge when a sailboat on its way home to Tampa after a trip to Key West, had just crossed under the Sunshine Skyway when many people on board saw an object in the water. They soon realized it was a dead body of a female. Soon another body was found and yet another third body was also dragged out of the bay within an hour. All three bodies had been tied and gagged and had concrete blocks tied around their necks. Autopsies thought the women had been tossed into the bay while still alive.

The Rogers women were identified a week after their bodies where found in the bay. A hotel maid had discovered that a hotel room had stood unused for several days. And when the reports about the murders started to leap into the media the hotel decided to contact investigators in the case. Soon it became clear that it was indeed the families room after fingerprints were matched to those of the victims, some snaphots from a camera were also discovered in the room which showed where the family had traveled and also a last shot over Tampa Bay. This photo was taken just minutes before the Rogers women went out to meet Oba Chandler to go on a boat ride out on the bay.

The case remained unsolved and cold for several years, partly due to the volume of tips pouring in to the police who investigated the crime.
Chandler would not be arrested for the murders until September 24, 1992. His handwritten directions and palmprint on a brochure found in the Rogers' vehicle, along with a description of his boat written by Jo Rogers on the brochure, were the primary clues that led to his being named a suspect. Also, authorities had posted the handwriting from the brochure on billboards, which was historic as it was used for the first time in an attempt to find the unknown killer, and this led to a tip from a former neighbor who was able to provide a copy of a work order that Chandler had written. A handwriting analysis conclusively matched the two.

The Rogers women were all buried on June 13, 1989 after a funeral service at the Zion Lutheral Church in their hometown of Willshire, Ohio. About 300 people among them family and friends of the victims attended the service. Numerous police officers were also present to keep all news media and crews out of the church during the funeral service, this because of the huge media interest for the case by media at the time. Chandler was tried and found guilty of the murders, and sentenced to death on November 4, 1994. After sentencing, the jury forewoman commented regarding the death sentence that ""They need to do this swiftly. The man is a mutation of a human being and he needs to be destroyed."" In July 2008, it was revealed that Chandler was on Florida's short-list of executions.

Profiling experts believe that Chandler may have killed previously, based on the speculation that a first-time killer would not be experienced or bold enough to abduct and kill three women at once. Chandler remains a suspect in a 1982 murder of a woman found floating off Anna Maria Island, he is also a suspect in a rape case concerning a Canadian woman weeks before the Rogers women's murder. However, Chandler has never been charged with other murders. Chandler got an Institutional Adjustment disciplinary report on December 15, 2001, for disobeying orders in prison. All of Chandler's appeals since his 1994 conviction have been denied, the latest one in May 2007. Author Thomas French in 1998 won the Pulitzer prize for his article series Angels & Demons which told the story of the murders.

Oba Chandler was executed on November 15, 2011 with a lethal injection at 4:25 pm in Florida State Prison in Raiford, Florida.


All Saints' Day

All Saints' Day is celebrated by Catholic Christians on November 1. Other Christians celebrate it as well. (May not be on the same day) It is a mandatory Catholic holiday. It is celebrated in the Catholic Church.
The next day, November 2 is celebrated as All Souls' Day, souls in Purgatory are especially remembered. Both days are considered important and they are integrated with each other. 
The older name is All Hallows or Hallowmas 

All Saints is also a Christian formula involving all the faithful saints and martyrs, known and unknown.

In Portugal, Spain and Mexico, "ofrendas" (offerings) are made on this day. In Spain, the play "Don Juan Tenorio" is traditionally performed. In Spain, Portugal, Italy and France, people bring flowers to the graves of dead relatives. In Poland, Slovenia, Slovakia, Lithuania, Croatia, Austria and Germany, the tradition is to light candles and visit the graves of deceased relatives. In the Philippines, the day is spent visiting the graves of deceased relatives, where they offer prayers, lay flowers, and light candles, often in a picnic-like atmosphere. In English speaking countries the festival is traditionally celebrated with the hymn "For All the Saints" by William Walsham How. The most familiar tune for this hymn is "Sine Nomine" by Ralph Vaughan Williams. 

The festival was retained after the Reformation in the calendar of the Church of England and in many Lutheran churches.


Ishy Bilady

"Ishy Bilady" (, ; "Long Live My Country") is the national anthem (a song that represents the country) of the seven United Arab Emirates. The tune was written in the year 1971 without words to sing. Then, in the year 1986 Arif Al Sheikh Abdullah Al Hassan Sahab came up with words for the song. The song is dedicated to the UAE. In the song, the people praise their country by stating that "the unity of the Emirates has lived" and "the United Arab Emirates has lived to be the nation, whose religion is Islam and whose guide is the Quran" the people also vow to forever work hard and sincerely for the country. The people also state that they "supply their country with their body, blood and souls." The song is a representation of love and submission of the Emirati people to country. It music was composed by Mohammed Abdul Wahab.

<poem>Long live my country, the unity of our Emirates lives.
You've lived for the nation's faith of Islam and guide of the Quran.
I've made you stronger in God's name, o homeland.

My country, my country, my country, my country.
God protected you from the evils of time.
We have sworn to build and work –
work earnestly, work earnestly.
we will be sincere.

The safety has lasted, the flag has lived, o our Emirates!
The symbol of Arabism: we all sacrifice for you and give you our blood;
For you we sacrifice with our souls, o homeland!</poem>

Origami

Origami is a traditional Japanese art of paper folding. It uses many techniques and various objects can be created. The object is made of origami paper, which is specially made for folding and staying in shape. Many dictionaries and television shows suggest that origami is only paper cranes, waterbombs, and paper planes, but many new models and creatures have been made because of new folding techniques.

When Japanese people first folded origami, they used only one piece of paper. A different kind of origami called "modular origami" uses many small pieces that are the same, which are combined to form one large model. Also, many mathematical shapes can be made with origami.

The beginnings of origami are not clear. Paperfolding started in China in the 1st or 2nd century. It arrived in Japan in the 6th century. Instead of making models that looked exactly like things, the first origami models only looked similar to things. People often folded models and gave them to other people for good luck. For example, Shinto nobles celebrated weddings with sake in glasses decorated with origami butterflies, which gave good luck to the bride and groom.

There were also independent paperfolding traditions in other countries, like Germany and Spain. The earliest evidence of paperfolding in Europe is a picture of a boat in 1490. There was also a paper box from 1440. Finally, in 1845, "Kan no mado" was written, and it was the first book of origami models.

Recently, people have become more interested in origami. In 1954, Japanese paperfolder Akira Yoshizawa created rules to explain how to fold origami models. His instructions on paperfolding are now used in all countries.

Peter Engel, who is a well-known paperfolder, says "the best paper [for origami] is thin and crisp and absolutely square." Pre-cut origami paper is sold in many colors, sizes, and patterns. Duo paper, or paper with different colors on each side, is used by paperfolders because it makes areas of different color on the finished model. There are also special papers, like textured, metallic, and patterned.

Many people like to make their own paper. Engel describes a process shown to him by Robert J. Lang that is "a sandwich of aluminum foil and two pieces of tissue paper." In this method, two pieces of paper are pasted to each side of the aluminum foil. Many people like origami because there is almost always paper. Copy paper, napkins, wallpaper, index cards, and even paper money can be used to make interesting and unique models.

Many paperfolders prefer to use a flat surface to fold models on, but others, like Japanese people, fold in the air. Traditional paperfolders believe that only the hands should be used when folding, but many modern folders use other tools when folding. Tweezers and paper clips can be used to make very small folds. Some folders use rulers or other flat tools to make sharper creases in the models.

New types of origami have been made because more people are making origami models.

Pureland origami is origami with one rule: only one fold can be made at a time. British paperfolder John Smith started pureland origami for inexperienced paperfolders or for people with poor motor skills. Hard folds, like the inside-reverse fold, are not allowed in pureland origami.

JSPWiki

JSPWiki is a feature-rich and extensible WikiWiki software built around the standard J2EE components (Java, servlets, JSP).
It was created by Janne Jalkanen.


Statement

Statement has several meanings:


Salvation

In theology, salvation can mean various things:



Polyhedron

A polyhedron ("polyhedra" or "polyhedrons" if more than one) is a geometrical shape. It is a 3D shape with flat faces, and straight edges. Each face is a polygon surrounded by edges. Usually it is known by the number of faces, corners, or edges it has. 

There are many groups of polyhedra, which can either be only a small set, or can be infinite. Prisms, pyramids, antiprisms, and bipyramids are groups of polyhedra. 

A regular polyhedron has faces that are all the same, corners that are all the same, and edges that are all the same. A uniform polyhedron can have one or two kinds of its parts be all the same. 

Two types of polyhedron are convex and concave. The edge connecting any two points of a convex polyhedron is inside the polyhedron. The line connecting two points of a concave polyhedron may go outside the polyhedron. The Platonic solids are regular convex polyhedra. 

Mathematicians do not always agree on what makes a polyhedron. Some may only consider the convex polyhedra, and disregard the ones that are not convex. Some polyhedra are degenerate, meaning that when drawn as real objects, they look flat.

Usually, polyhedra are named by the number of faces they have. The first polyhedra are the tetrahedron, which is made of four triangles, pentahedron (five faces, can look like a four-sided pyramid), hexahedron (six faces, a cube if it is regular), heptahedron (seven faces) and octahedron (eight faces). Prisms, pyramids and other shapes can also be named after how many faces they have.


Pentagon

A pentagon is a polygon with five edges. It is defined by five points, which are all on a plane. If all the edges have the same length and the angles at the corners are all 108°, the pentagon is called "regular". If the pentagon intersects itself, it is called a pentagram.

Pentagons also occur in nature: Fruits of the Okra are pentangular. The flowers of Ipomoea are pentagular. In chemistry, many Cyclic compounds are pentangles: Cyclopentane and Furan are examples for this. In architecture, many bastions are pentangular: Bourtange, in the Netherlands has been completely restored, and is a pentangle. The Citadel of Lille, Nyenschantz, near St. Petersburg, or the Citadel of Pamplona are . The Villa Farnese is a palace in the form of a pentagon, so is the castle of Nowy Wiśnicz. The Pilgrimage Church of Saint John of Nepomuk near Žďár nad Sázavou also uses a pentangular design.

"Note: these formulas only work for regular pentagons."

formula_1

formula_2

formula_3

formula_4

"R" is the radius of the circumcircle.

Calendar date

A Calendar date is a way to refer to a certain day in a calendar. With the calendar date and the calendar, the exact day can be identified. With a different calendar, the same calendar date may refer to a different day. This can be seen easiest when comparing the Julian calendar with the Gregorian calendar. 

Calendar dates are important to refer to events (most holidays are fixed with reference to a particular event or calendar date.) One example may be Easter. In the Middle Ages, it has been fixed that Easter is to be the first Sunday that is (on or after) the 14th day after the spring equinox. 

Most calendar systems have a date format that has three parts, the day of a certain month, the month and the year. Sometimes the week is added. 


Iranian calendars

The Iranian calendar also known as Persian calendar or the Persian Calendar is a Shahanshahi Or King calendar. It is currently used in Iran and Persia. It is observation-based, rather than rule-based. Each year starts on the vernal equinox as precisely determined by astronomical observations from Tehran (or the 52.5°E meridian, which also defines IRST) and Tehran. This makes it more accurate than the Gregorian Calendar.

The current Iranian Calendar year is 2582 AP" (AP = Anno Persico/Anno Persarum = Persian year)".


Hexagon

A hexagon is a polygon with 6 sides and 6 corners (vertices). Like regular triangles and squares, hexagons fit together without gaps. This is known as a tessellation. Because of this, they are often used for tiling floors. They are also quite common in nature. For example, the honeycombs in a beehive are hexagons.



West Edmonton Mall

The West Edmonton Mall (WEM) is the second-largest shopping centre in North America. It is in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. It is one of the main tourist attractions in Alberta. The mall is also the fourth largest in the world. WEM first opened on September 15, 1981.

In addition to the over 500 shops in the West Edmonton Mall, there are many other things which people go to the mall for.

The mall also has an Ice skating rink, miniature golf course, casino, skate park, hotel, petting zoo, three movie theaters and many other things to see.


Ahmad Khatami

Ayatollah Sayyid Ahmad Khatami () is a member of the Iranian Assembly of Experts.

Although his name resembles that of Mohammad Khatami, the reformist former president of Iran, the two men are not related. In fact, they have opposite points of view on many issues, such as democracy and velayate faqih in Iran.


Tendon

A tendon (or sinew) is a tough band of tissue that connects muscle to bone. It is built to withstand tension. Tendons are similar to ligaments except that ligaments join one bone to another. Tendons and muscles work together, roughly as follows. When muscles contract, the tendon transmits the pull to the bone.

A tendon connects to a muscle at one end, and to bone at the other end. Each tendon has these two "insertions".

Collagen fibres connect the muscle to the bones. A tendon inserts into bone at one end, and into the muscle at the other end. 

Tendons do not create any pulling force of their own. The tendons transfer the force of muscles pulling on the bone. Unlike elastin (another bodily tissue) tendons have very little "give". 

Tendons are often connected to joints.

Coffee substitute

Coffee substitutes are products that try to taste like coffee. The idea for using them is to have a drink that tastes like coffee, but has no caffeine in it. The main reasons for making coffee substitutes are medical, economic and barbaric. In World War II, acorns were used to make coffee, however it tasted foul. It was also hard to get. In the American Civil War there was a similar story -

""For the stimulating property to which both tea and coffee owe their chief value, there is unfortunately no substitute; the best we can do is to dilute the little stocks which still remain, and cheat the palate, if we cannot deceive the nerves."" The Southern Banner, 1865

Grain coffee and other substitutes can be made by roasting or decocting various organic substances.

Some ingredients used include: almond, acorn, asparagus, barley and malt, beech nut, beetroot, carrot, chicory root, corn, cotton seed, dandelion root, fig, boiled-down molasses, okra seed, pea, persimmon seed, potato peel, rye, sassafras nut, sweet potato.

Chicory has been sold commercially on a large scale since around 1970, and it has become a mainstream product. It was widely used during the American Civil War on both sides. Chicory is a native plant of Western Asia, Europe, and Northern Africa. And the cultivation of the plant is considered to be originated in Egypt. In France, around the 1800s, chicory was used as an ingredient or substitute for coffee.

Postum is an instant type beverage used in place of coffee. It made from roasted grains and molasses. Postum history goes back to 1895 when an American named C.W. Post created the coffee substitute, inspired by a caramel coffee recipe made by Harvey Kellogg. It reached the height of its popularity during World War II. It also really caught on with people who for health or religious reasons preferred not to consume drinks that contained caffeine. For popular usage on the sitcom Seinfeld George says to Jerry he does not know why postum is not a more popular beverage.


Kuzcham Dherai

Kuzcham Dherai (also sometimes called Dherai, Dehrai or Derai) is a town in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistan. It is located on the bank of the river Swat and a couple of miles away from Swat Saidu Sharif airport. The population of Dherai is about 10,000 people.

It is believed that Alexander the Great once passed through this area.

Class

Class could mean:








Croatian language

The Croatian language is spoken mainly throughout the countries of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the surrounding countries of Europe.
Croatian grammar is the grammar of the Croatian language. The Croatian language consists of three vernaculars (Kaikavian, Chakavian and Shtokavian).
Croatian grammar books show that the codification of the language started at the beginning of the 17th century (the first grammar was written by Bartol Kašić in Latin in 1604). This means that the rules for the language were written down. From 1604 to 1836 there were 17 grammars. Most of them described the Štokavian dialect, but some were about Kajkavian. In the 19th century, more grammars based on Štokavian were written. They were "Nova ricsoslovnica illiricka", written by Šime Starčević (1812), and "Grammatik der illyrischen Sprache", written by Ignjat Alojzije Brlić (1833). Even before the 19th century, the three dialects of the Croatian language were almost equally used. However, the way each dialect was written down varied throughout Croatia. Near the Adriatic coast, it was more similar to Italian, and near the Hungarian border, it was more similar to Hungarian.
All grammars of the above period (1604-1836) used three accents: acute, grave and circumflex, Starčević's grammar is an exception as it uses a system of four accents.
In 19th century, Ljudevit Gaj proposed new letters from Czech (č,ž,š,ľ,ň,ď and ǧ). The letters that were accepted were č, ž and š, and from Polish, ć. For other phonemes (sounds), the digraphs that were accepted were ie, lj, nj and dž. Later dj or gj was changed to đ (according to proposal by Đuro Daničić).

The Croatian language uses a Latin script of 30 letters and one diphthong "ie" or "ije", and "ŕ". This system is called "gajica" in Croatian (or Croatian Gaj's Latin alphabet). The name came from Ljudevit Gaj. The letter order (and whole alphabet) is called "abeceda" in Croatian, because the first 4 letters are spelled "a, be, ce, de". For writing foreign names and words, and in some professions, the Croatian language uses letters which do not belong to "gajica", like "X, x (iks), Y,y (ipsilon)" and others.

Croatian alphabet (Gaica) 1830.c

In Croatian, nouns change form depending on the composition of the sentence. This is called declension. For people who are learning Croatian, declension is the most difficult part of the language to master. It is very complicated and time-consuming to explain it and because of that we will use simpler techniques. However, many languages have noun and pronoun declension, including English. In English, though, only pronoun declension now remains. Let us start by explaining all of the seven Croatian grammatical cases. The technique that is most frequently used in determining grammatical cases (the same technique is used in Croatian schools when taught to children) is by asking yourself a question when you are trying to figure out which case a noun should be in. In Croatian, grammatical cases are called padeži (plural) and padež (singular).
The question you will ask yourself here is: “Where is Krešimir going?”. And the answer is that he's going to school. By looking at the table below you will see that the question 'where' is used for the Locative case.
Croatian nouns are divided into three genders: the masculine, feminine and neuter gender. To know a noun's gender is very important because it affects all the words in a sentence that are tied to the noun, such as adjectives. A gender is determined by the noun's ending (with some exceptions). This makes it easier to tell what gender a noun is without memorizing the gender of every word. See the table below.
Nouns retain their gender in plural. For instance, even though the noun 'žene' (women) ends in -e, it is of the feminine gender.

Croatian verbs have two grammatical aspects: the perfective and imperfective. The perfective aspect depicts an action that has already been finished. The imperfective aspect depicts an action that is still continuing. So, each verb in its infinitive form can be written in 2 ways: in its perfective and imperfective aspect. The table below is showing 5 verbs both in their perfective and imperfective aspects.

In Croatian, there are seven grammatical tenses. They can be divided in two ways: by the time they take place in and by their complexity. Simple tenses consist of only 1 word (simple tenses are aorist, imperfect, and present) while complex tenses consist of 2 or even 3 words (complex tenses are pluperfect, perfect, first future, second future) because they also consist of auxiliary verbs. Also, some grammatical tenses cannot be formed with both grammatical aspects, they work with only one aspect.

The Croatian week starts with Monday and ends with Sunday, unlike weeks from some other countries, where Sunday is the first day and Saturday the last.
----

Prize

A prize is an award given to a person or a group of people to reward good work. 

Official prizes often include monetary rewards as well as the fame that comes with them. Some prizes are given out in famous ceremonies, such as the Oscars.

Prizes are given for a number of reasons: as an honour for special persons, for exemplary behaviour and to provide incentives in competitions, etc. In general, prizes are regarded in a positive light, and their winners are admired. However, many prizes, especially the more famous ones, have often caused controversy and jealousy.

Specific types of prizes include:

Christian Church

A Christian Church is a set group of Christians. They meet together to practice Christianity. "The Church" can also mean all Christians everywhere, also called the Catholic Church. It means every person who has ever accepted or ever will accept the Christian Faith. 

The idea is that all these people together make up one "body" called "the Church". "The Church" (in this sense) is not thought of by Christians as an ordinary human organisation. It is thought of as being part of God's way to bring people close to him. "The Church" was begun by Jesus in the 1st century AD. It is called "The Christian Church" because Jesus was called "The Christ" (or holy one from God).

Today there are many churches in the sense of "church organisations". The different organised churches are called Christian denominations.

The main Christian beliefs are held by all major Christian denominations. These beliefs are often said aloud by Christian people in a "statement of faith" which is called the Creed. The Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran, Anglican Communion and other Protestant churches all believe that God is the "creator and eternal father of all things", that Jesus was the "Christ" and son of God who died to save people from the punishment for their sins, and that the Holy Spirit is God's gift to help and comfort Christian people. Christians believe that these are three parts of One God.

There are many other beliefs that are different between different denominations. These differences have sometimes caused arguments and have caused the organised church to split into denominations. The different opinions are called controversies.

During Late Antiquity, the Christian Church started became the most important persecuting organization in human history.

The English word "church" comes from the Greek κυριακή (kyriake) meaning "Master's (house)", or "Lord's (house)". In modern English the word "church" is used for both a church building and "the Christian Church" throughout the world.

In 381 AD, at the a meeting of bishops known as the First Council of Constantinople, the Nicene Creed (a statement of beliefs) that was used at the time was changed to include a description of the Church. The words that were added to the Nicene Creed are "One Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church". This important addition describes the four most important things that Christians were to believe about the Christian Church.

These are the four words that are used in the Nicene Creed: 

One important controversy is simply the definition of the Christian or Catholic Church. To some degree this controversy comes from the Nicene Creed with its words "One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church" which means "universal" church. Many denominations believe that all denominations are part of a world-wide Christian Church and think that the most important thing is the "common faith" and not a common organisation or tradition. ("Common faith" means "the faith that is the same". The word "common" does not mean "ordinary" in this sense.)

For many hundreds of years, the Roman Catholic Church has regarded itself as the only Christian Church and has called itself the "Catholic" (or "universal") church. In other words, only those people who were within the "organisation" of the Roman Catholic Church were believed to belong to the "Universal Church". In the 20th century this view began to change and in the late 20th century there was a strong movement within parts of the Roman Catholic Church to reach out to other denominations. The Eastern Orthodox Church has thought of itself in the same way, but in the late 20th century there has been much more discussion between the Orthodox Church and Roman Catholic, Lutheran and Anglican Churches. Some smaller denominations such as Jehovah's Witnesses also believe that they are the one and only true Christian Church.



Church (disambiguation)

Church could mean:






Religious denomination

A religious denomination (also simply denomination) is a subgroup within a religion that has a common name, tradition, and identity.

The term is often used for several Christian denominations including Eastern Orthodoxy, Catholicism, and the many sorts of Protestantism like Baptist, Methodist, Episcopalian and Pentecostal.

It is also used for the four branches of Judaism (Orthodox, Conservative, Reform and Reconstructionist), and for the main branches of Islam (Sunnism and Shi'ism, Quranism, Ibadism, Sufism, Muwahhidism).

In Hinduism the major deity or philosophical belief functions as the identifier of a denomination and typically each has distinct cultural and religious practices. The major denominations include Shaivism, Shaktism, Vaishnavism, Smartism, and Halumatha. 


Christian denomination

The word denomination is used for a large group of Christian people right across the world who use the same name, the same sort of organization and have the same (or very similar) beliefs. Christianity is divided into ten main groups. These groups all branched out at different dates from the early Christianity founded by the followers of Jesus. The splits generally happened because they could not agree on certain beliefs or practices. The groups then divided into smaller groups. Each group that has its own separate name is a "denomination". The word "denomination" means "Being given a name” 

Worldwide Christianity is divided into 10 major groups :

Each of these ten has important subdivisions. There are also other (smaller) groups that are not mentioned here.

The Evangelical and Nontrinitarian branches of Christianity are much more divided up than any of the others. Each separate Evangelical church is often called a "denomination". While the Roman Catholic Church looks to a single earthly leader, the Pope, and has similar beliefs right across the world, the several Protestant denominations do not look to a single leader and sometimes have beliefs that are very different from each other. 
Many Christian denomination see themselves as part of the worldwide Church which includes other denominations as well. Some denominations, such as the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches and some Protestant Churches, believe that they are the "only" true Christian church. 

Some denominations have beliefs which almost all the other denominations would disagree with, very strongly. These beliefs are called "heresy" by the other churches. 

There were some movements considered heresies by the early church which do not exist today and are not generally referred to as denominations. Examples include the Gnostics (who had believed in an esoteric dualism), the Ebionites (who venerated Christ's blood relatives), and the Arians. The greatest divisions in Christianity today, however, are between Eastern Orthodoxy, Roman Catholicism, and various denominations formed during and after the Protestant Reformation. There also exists in Protestantism and Orthodoxy various degrees of unity and division.

Comparisons between denominations must be approached with caution. For example, some churches are part of a larger church organization or diocese, while in other groups, each congregation is an independent organization. This issue is further complicated by the existence of groups of congregations with a common heritage that are officially nondenominational and have no centralized authority or records, but which are identified as denominations by non-adherents. Study of such churches in denominational terms is therefore a more complex proposition.

Numerical comparisons are also problematic. Some groups count membership based on adult believers and baptized children of believers, while others only count adult baptized believers. Others may count membership based on those adult believers who have formally affiliated themselves with the congregation. In addition, there may be political motives of advocates or opponents of a particular group to inflate or deflate membership numbers through propaganda or outright deception.



List of Christian denominations by number of members

This article gives information about the relative size of denominations, based mainly on claims by the churches themselves.

Catholicism is the largest branch of Christianity with 1.329 billion and the Catholic Church is the largest among churches. Figures below are in accordance with the "Annuario Pontificio", at 2018. The total figure does not include independent Catholic denominations (18 million).




Various denominations self-identifying as Catholic, despite not being affiliated with the Catholic Church.


Protestantism is the second largest major group of Christians by number of followers. Estimates vary from 800 million to a billion, or nearly 40% of all Christians. The main reason for this wide range is the lack of a common agreement among scholars as to which denominations constitute Protestantism. For instance, most sources but not all include Anabaptism, Anglicanism, Baptists and Independent Nondenominational Christianity as part of Protestantism. Moreover, Protestant denominations altogether do not form a single structure comparable to the Catholic Church, or to a lesser extent the Eastern Orthodox Communion. However, several different comparable communions exist within Protestantism, such as the Anglican Communion, World Communion of Reformed Churches, World Baptist Alliance, World Methodist Council and the World Lutheran Federation. Regardless, 900 million is the most accepted figure among various authors and scholars, and thus is used in this article. Note that this 900 million figure also includes Anglicanism, as well as Anabaptists, Baptists and multiple other groups that might sometimes disavow a common "Protestant" designation, and would rather prefer to be called, simply, "Christian".

The number of individuals who are members of historical Protestant Churches totals to 300-400 million.
There are about 110 million Christians in Anglican tradition, mostly part of the Anglican Communion, the third largest Christian denomination in the world.

The number of individuals who hold membership in the Baptist denomination totals to 75-105 million, being represented in the following Churches:

The number of adherents in the Lutheran denomination totals to 70-90 million persons, being represented in the following Churches:

The Reformed tradition is represented by 60-80 million people who hold membership in the following Churches:

The number of members in the Methodist denomination totals to 60-80 million people, being represented in the following Churches:

The Seventh-day Adventist Church has a membership of 21.4 million people.



The Plymouth Brethren number around 1 million members.


The denominations listed below did not emerge from the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century or its commonly acknowledged offshoots. Instead, they are broadly linked to Pentecostalism or similar other independent evangelical and revivalistic movements that originated in the beginning of the 20th century. For this reason, several sources tend to differentiate them from Protestants and classify them as together as Independents, Non-core Protestants etc. Also included in this category are the numerous, yet very similar Nondenominational churches. Nonetheless, sources eventually combine their numbers to the Protestant tally. Despite the absence of centralized control or leadership, if considered as a single cohort, this will easily be the second largest Christian tradition after Roman Catholicism. According to the Center for the Study of Global Christianity (CSGC), there are an estimated 450 million Independents world-wide, as of mid-2019.

Those who are members of the Pentecostal denomination number around 280 million people.


60 million people are members of African initiated churches.

The New Apostolic Church has around 10 million members.

The best estimate of the number of Eastern Orthodox Christians is 210–230 million or 80% of all Orthodox Christians worldwide. Its main body consists of the various autocephalous churches along with the autonomous and other churches canonically linked to them, for the most part form a single communion, making the Eastern Orthodox Church the second largest single denomination behind the Catholic Church. In addition, there are several Eastern Orthodox splinter groups and non-universally recognized churches.







The Oriental Orthodox Churches are those descended from those that rejected the Council of Chalcedon in 451. Despite the similar name, they are therefore a different branch of Christianity from the Eastern Orthodox (see above). There are an estimated 62 million Oriental Orthodox Christians, worldwide.



A sixth group is composed by Non-trinitarian Restorationists. These groups are quite distinct from orthodox Trinitarian restorationist groups such as the Disciples of Christ, despite some shared history.








Christendom

Christendom or the Christian world, in the widest sense, means Christianity as a territorial phenomenon. That means: those countries where most people are Christians and because of that are part of Christendom.

People have used the term Christendom for the medieval and Renaissance understanding of the Christian world as one single "Body of Christ" with Christ as the head. With the rise of Modernity and the Reformation during the early 16th century the understanding changed to a modern idea of a tolerant and diverse society that consists of many different communities.



Creed

A creed is a statement or confession of belief — usually religious belief — or faith. The word comes from the Latin "credo" for "I believe". It is called "symbol" (Greek, συμβολον), that means a "token" by which persons of like beliefs might recognize each other.

It is likely that the earliest creed of Christianity that deserves the title in full is the Apostles' Creed. The Apostles' Creed seems to have been formulated to resist Gnosticism; it emphasizes the birth, physical death, and bodily Resurrection of Jesus Christ. It reads:

The Nicene Creed is clearly derived from the Apostles' Creed, and represents an elaboration of its basic themes. The most important additions to this creed are much more elaborate statements concerning Christology and the Trinity. 
Christians today probably use the Nicene Creed most widely, followed by the Apostles' Creed.

The Jewish faith recognizes a single creed called the Shmah or Shema Yisrael, a statement of faith in strict unitarian monotheism, the belief in one God. This creed is embodied in a single prayer recited twice a day: "Hear O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is One", also translated as "Hear O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is unique ["or" alone]."

In Hebrew: שמע ישראל אדני אלהינו אדני אחד

This is pronounced phonetically in Hebrew: "Shema Yisrael Adonai Eloheinu Adonai Echad".

The most basic attempt to put the religion of Islam in a brief statement of doctrine is the shahada, the proclamation that there is no god but Allah, and Muhammad is His prophet.

More detailed credal declarations of Islamic dogma constitute aqidah.

The six Sunni articles of belief are:

Also from the Aqidah of the Salaf is the belief that the faith (i.e. Eemaan) consists of (both) speech and action and that it increases and decreases. This differs from the Murji’ah a sect who uphold the belief of “Irjaa’”-to hold that sins major and minor, do not affect the faith and that faith neither increases nor decreases.

And they uphold the belief that the Quran is the Speech of Allah, His Revelation and Light. It is not created, since the Quran is from Allah and that which is from Allah is not created. One of the attributes of Allah is his Speech. Since His attributes have been with Him eternally, His Speech cannot be created and therefore, the Quran is not created. According to the Salaf, debating about it is disbelief. It is not denied except by a Jahmee. A Jahmee is one who denies Allah’s attributes.




Creed (disambiguation)

A creed is a statement of belief, usually religious.

Creed may also refer to:



Military


Fictional


Companies

Literature

Music

Places


Shahada

The Shahada (, ) is the first pillar of Islam. The saying is ""Lā ʾIlāha ʾIllā Allah, Muḥammadun Rasūl Allah"", meaning "There is no deity but God, Muhammad is the messenger of God".

In one of the many ayahs (proofs, evidence, verses, signs, revelations, etc.) within the Quran. The ayah says 3:18 

3:18

شَهِدَ ٱللَّهُ أَنَّهُۥ لَآ إِلَـٰهَ إِلَّا هُوَ وَٱلْمَلَـٰٓئِكَةُ وَأُو۟لُوا۟ ٱلْعِلْمِ قَآئِمًۢا بِٱلْقِسْطِ ۚ لَآ إِلَـٰهَ إِلَّا هُوَ ٱلْعَزِيزُ ٱلْحَكِيمُ ١٨

  Allâh bears witness that Lâ ilâha illa Huwa (none has the right to be worshipped but He), and the angels, and those having knowledge (also give this witness); (He always) maintains His creation in Justice. Lâ ilâha illa Huwa (none has the right to be worshipped but He), the All-Mighty, the All-Wise.

Purgatory

According to the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church, Purgatory is the "final purification of the elect": "All who die in God's grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, are indeed assured of their eternal salvation; but after death they undergo purification, so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven." 
“In Purgatory there are different levels; the lowest is close to hell and the highest gradually draws near to Heaven. It is not All Souls Day, but, Christmas, that the greatest number of souls leave Purgatory.

There are in Purgatory, souls who pray ardently to God, but for whom no relative or friend prays on earth. God makes them benefit from the prayers of other people.

It happens that God permits them to manifest themselves in different way, close to their relatives on earth, in order to remind men of the existence of Purgatory and to solicit their prayers to come close to God who is just, but good.

Perhaps the best-known instance of purgatory in the arts is Dante's "Purgatorio", the second book of his "Divine Comedy". Likewise, the Ghost in William Shakespeare's "Hamlet" may also presuppose a belief in purgatory, 




William Blake

William Blake (28 November 1757 – 12 August 1827) was an English poet, visionary, painter, and printmaker. He was born and died in London.

During his lifetime he was not very well known. Today Blake's work is thought to be important in the history of both poetry and the visual arts. Blake's first collection of poems, "Poetical Sketches", was printed around 1783. His most famous poem "And did those feet in ancient time" was, over 100 years later, put to music by Hubert Parry. The hymn is called "Jerusalem".

Blake was voted 38th in a poll of the 100 Greatest Britons organised by the BBC in 2002.

Profiles
Archives
Digital editions and research

Institution

An institution is a social structure in which people cooperate and which influences the behavior of people and the way they live.

An institution has a purpose. Institutions are permanent, which means that they do not end when one person is gone. An institution has rules and can enforce rules of human behavior. The word "institution" can be used in two ways. It can mean a very broad idea, or a very "specific" (narrow) one. For example: 

Institutions, in the broad sense, are found in every society. The way that each institution works is different in different cultures. Some important institutions are: 

Some societies have many institutions in the "specific" sense. These societies have an organised government, schools, hospitals, churches, clubs, armies, markets, courts and places for entertainment. Some societies have very few of these things, but this does not mean that there are no "institutions". The way in which the people relate to each other may have just as many "controls" as in a society with schools, markets and a government. An example of a society that has lots of "specific" institutions is Western Europe. 
Historians look at institutions to find differences between eras or periods. They sometimes judge political and military events by the effect that they had on institutions.




Race (biology)

In biology, races are distinct populations within the same species with relatively small morphological and genetic differences. 

The populations are "ecological races" if they arise from adaptation to different local habitats or "geographic races" when they are geographically isolated. 

If sufficiently different, two or more races may be described as subspecies, which is an official biological taxonomy unit below 'species'. 

If not, they are called "races", which means that a formal rank should not be given to the group, or taxonomists are unsure whether or not a formal rank should be given. 

According to Ernst Mayr, "a subspecies is a "geographic race" that is sufficiently different taxonomically to be worthy of a separate name" 

The key lime is a shrub that grows to a size of about 5 metres in height. It has many thorns. It produces a fruit that is yellow when it is ripe. This fruit is preferred by bartenders to mix cocktails. They prefer this lime, rather than the Persian lime. 

The lime plant originally came from southeast Asia, where it is native. It was taken to the Middle East, and Crusaders took it to Europe and North Africa. Spanish explorers took it to the West Indies and the Florida Keys. In 1926, a hurricane destroyed most of the commercially-grown limes in the region. The Persian lime was reintroduced then.

Some of the original shrubs grew wild in the Florida Keys. It became clear that the originally introduced shrubs (now known as "Mexican limes") had modified their fruits. These were darker green than the original Persian limes, they also had a thicker skin.

In biological taxonomy, race is an informal rank below the level of subspecies. It may be used as a higher rank than "strain". There are various definitions. Races may be genetically distinct populations in the same species, or they may be defined in other ways, e.g. geographically, or physiologically. Genetic isolation between races is not complete (some interbreeding takes place between the groups).
However, the genetic differences are not (yet) enough to put the groups into separate species. The term "race" is recognized by some, but is not governed by any of the formal codes of biological classification.

In former times, scientists often divided human beings into races. For example, they called people with a dark skin "Negroid" or "black race". But, human gene sequences are very similar compared to many other animals. This is one reason why modern biology says that there is only one human race.

Phenotype

The phenotype of an organism is the whole set of characters (or traits) of that organism.

It does not mean just 'what you can see on the surface'. Rather, it means anything which can be made visible by suitable means. For example, blood groups are definitely a part of the phenotype. However, they are not visible just by looking at a person.

In biology, the phenotype is distinguished from the genotype. This was proposed by Wilhelm Johannsen in 1911 to make clear the difference between an organism's heredity and what that heredity produces. The distinction is similar to that proposed by August Weismann, who distinguished between "germ plasm" (gametes or their stem cells) and "somatic cells" (the body).

The phenotype is important because it is exposed to natural selection:

Phenotypes are determined mainly by genes and are influenced by environmental factors. So, knowing the genome of an organism does not give an exact prediction of its phenotype.

Traits vary greatly in how much they owe to heredity (nature vs nurture). The interaction between genotype and phenotype has often been conceptualized by the following relationship:

The term 'phenotype' must include characteristics that can be made visible by some technical procedure (such as blood types). Another extension adds behaviour to the phenotype since behaviours are also affected by both genotypic and environmental factors.

The idea of the extended phenotype has been developed by Richard Dawkins to mean all the effects a gene has on the outside world that may influence its chances of being inherited. These can be effects on the organism carrying the trait, the environment, or other organisms. For instance, a beaver dam might be considered a phenotype of beaver genes, the same way beavers' powerful incisor teeth are phenotype expressions of their genes. Dawkins also cites the effect of an organism on the behaviour of another organism (such as the devoted nurturing of a cuckoo by a parent clearly of a different species) as an example of the extended phenotype.


Key lime

The Key lime is a citrus fruit. Its Latin name is "Citrus aurantiifolia" (often, less correctly: "C. aurantifolia"), or "Citrus" x "aurantiifolia" (Christm.) Swingle. It is also known as the Mexican lime, West Indian lime or Bartender's lime. It is a shrub that grows to about 5m in height. 

Its fruit is 2.5-5 cm in diameter (1-2 in). The fruit is yellow when ripe but usually, it is picked green. It is smaller, seedier, has higher acidity, a stronger aroma, and a thinner rind than that of the more common Persian lime. It is valued for its unique flavor compared to other lime. The Key lime usually has a more tart and bitter flavor. It is perhaps most distinguished as an ingredient in the Key lime pie. 

"C. aurantiifolia" is a shrubby tree, that grows to 5 m (16 ft), with many thorns. Dwarf varieties are popular with home growers and can be grown indoors in winter in colder climates. The trunk rarely grows straight, with many branches that often originate quite far down on the trunk. The leaves are ovate 2.5–9 cm (1–3.5 in) long. They resemble orange leaves (the scientific name "aurantiifolia" refers to the leaves' resemblance). The flowers are 2.5 cm (1 in) in diameter. They are yellowish-white with a light purple tinge on the margins. Flowers and fruit appear throughout the year but are most abundant from May to September .

"C. aurantiifolia" originally came from Southeast Asia. It was introduced through the Middle East to North Africa and Europe during the Crusades. Spanish explorers then took it to the West Indies (at some point including the Florida Keys) contemporaneously with Columbus, then tropical and sub-tropical North America including Mexico, Florida, and later California . The English name "lime" was derived from the Persian name لیمو "Limu" in this course. "Key" would seem to have been added sometime after the Persian lime cultivar became more important commercially in the United States. This was after the hurricane of 1926. The hurricane destroyed most U.S. "C. aurantiifolia" plants. Some plants growing in the wild in the Keys survived the hurricane. Since the North American Free Trade Agreement came into effect, many Key limes are grown in Mexico and Central America. They are also grown in Texas and California.


Age of Discovery

The Age of Discovery or Age of Exploration was a period from the early 15th century that continued into the early 17th century, during which European ships traveled around the world to search for new trading routes and partners.

They were in search of trading goods such as gold, silver and spices. In the process, Europeans met people and mapped lands previously unknown to them. Among the most famous explorers of the period were Christopher Columbus, Vasco da Gama, Pedro Álvares Cabral, John Cabot, , Juan Ponce de León, Juan Sebastian Elcano, Bartholomeu Dias, Ferdinand Magellan, Willem Barentsz, Abel Tasman, Jean Alfonse, Jacques Cartier, Samuel de Champlain, and Willem Blaeu.
Henry the Navigator started by paying Portuguese sailors to explore the west coast of Africa. In 1419 Joao Goncalves Zarco discovered the Madeira Islands. Later in the 15th century, Vasco da Gama reached the southwestern tip of Africa and established the city of Cape Town, a Portuguese colony. This opened the way to the Indian Ocean. In the next two centuries, the Portuguese created a great trading empire on coasts of Africa, the Arabian Peninsula, and India. The Portuguese Empire eventually weakened after the Dutch East India Company rose as the major power in Indian Ocean trade.

In a hurry to compete with Portugal for a colonial empire, Spain sent Christopher Columbus to the opposite route of the Portuguese. Instead of going south along the west coast of Africa, Columbus sailed across the Atlantic Ocean. He believed that he came to Asia. Later, some Spanish sailors found out that this land was a different continent than Asia. It is now called the Americas.

In the 16th century, Spanish conquistadores gained the whole of what later became Latin America, except some British and French colonies in northeastern South America, and Brazil, which belonged to Portugal. The Spanish concentrated on conquest, unlike the Portuguese who focused on trading. They eventually developed a vast colonial empire, in contrast to the Portuguese who ruled a few islands and coastal cities along the Indian Ocean. During the Iberian Union of Spain and Portugal under King Philip II of Spain , their combined empire was the largest on earth.
In 1522 the fleet of Ferdinand Magellan returned to Spain. The survivors were the first ever to sail all the way around the world.

In the 17th century, political and religious wars with Britain, France, and the Netherlands weakened the Iberian Peninsula. These three nations emerged as the main winners of the wars and became major powers like Spain and Portugal. In the next two centuries, the world became a battlefield of the three nations. Britain and France held land in North America, in India and other distant places. The Dutch colonized smaller parts of the Americas, took the former Portuguese trading centers around the Indian Ocean, and conquered Indonesia. These three new great powers also had influence all around the world.

Eventually, the result was a series of wars that were fought both in Europe and overseas, with Britain emerging victorious. The British took the former land of French Canada and India in the 18th century. They seized power in the Indian Ocean and defeated the Dutch navy. By 1763, the British Empire had become the second global empire after Spain. However, in 1776, thirteen colonies of British America declared independence. With help from the French, Dutch and Spanish, they defeated Britain in the American Revolution.

In 1778, Captain James Cook of Britain sailed across the South Pacific Ocean looking for a mysterious continent in the Southern Hemisphere. He landed on two large islands. Then he sailed west and found a bigger piece of land. The first, was modern New Zealand; the second was Australia. Captain Cook claimed these lands for Britain. He then explored the Pacific world for another year and died in a fight with the Hawaiians.

Many slaves brought from Africa were brought to the Americas which was claimed to be found by Christopher Columbus himself. In conclusion, the Portuguese were weakened after the Dutch rose in the Indian Ocean trade route. Spain gained almost all of Latin America and a massive amount of silver.

When Christopher Columbus tried to find a new trade route to Asia, he thought that he could travel around the world. Instead, he had found a New World. Vikings had briefly visited Vinland around 1000 A.D.



Persian lime

Persian Lime ("Citrus x latifolia"), also known as Tahiti lime or Bearss lime is a kind of citrus fruit. It is the primary citrus fruit grown commercially in the U.S. It is sold simply as a "lime". The fruit is about 6 cm in diameter. Very often, it has slightly nippled ends. It is usually sold quite green, although it yellows as it reaches full ripeness. It is larger, thicker-skinned, and less aromatic than the key lime. The key lime is grown more often worldwide. The Persian lime is bigger than the key lime, and has fewer seeds. The plant is also hardier, and has no thorns on the bushes. The fruit also has a longer shelf life. 
Persian limes are less acidic than key limes and do not have the bitterness that lends to the key lime's unique flavour. Persian limes are sold primarily in six sizes, known as 110's, 150's, 175's, 200's, 230's and 250's. They are grown primarily in Florida in the U.S. The Persian lime became more important when key lime orchards were wiped out by a hurricane in 1926. Persian lime orchards themselves were devastated by Hurricane Andrew in 1992. Large numbers of Persian limes are grown, processed and exported every year primarily from Martínez de la Torre, Veracruz, Mexico, to the American, European and Asian markets. U.S. Persian lime imports from Mexico are handled mostly through McAllen, Texas.


Kaffir lime

The Kaffir lime ("Citrus hystrix "DC., Rutaceae), also known as kieffer lime, makrut or magrood, is a citrus fruit native to Indonesia. It is widely grown worldwide as a garden shrub. It is usually grown it for its fruit, the lime. The leaves are used for cooking. Vegetable oil obtained from the leaves is used to make perfumes.

The plant is a very thorny bush with aromatic leaves. The oil obtained from the rind of the fruit can be used as an insecticide. The plant is well suited to being grown in a container. The green fruits are different from other limes because of their bumpy and rough exterior. They are also quite small, about 4 centimetres across. The leaves are shaped like an hourglass. The leaves and the leaf-shaped stem are widely used in the cuisine of Cambodia, Thailand and Laos.

"Citrus x hystrix" leaves are also popular in Cambodia but less so in Vietnam. Malay, Burmese and Indonesian (especially Balinese and Javanese; see also Indonesian bay leaf) cuisines use them sporadically with chicken and fish.

The leaves can be used fresh or dried and can be stored frozen.

Although the most common product of the "Citrus x hystrix" tree is its leaves (which give a sharp Lime/neroli flavour to Cambodian base paste known as Krueng, Thai dishes such as tom yum and Indonesian food such as sayur assam - literally "sour vegetables"), the juice and rind of the small, dark-green gnarled fruit (known as jeruk obat - literally "medicine citrus") are used in traditional Indonesian medicine.

The zest is widely used in Creole cuisine and to impart flavour to "arranged" rums on Réunion and Madagascar.

Other names for "Citrus x hystrix":

"The Oxford Companion to Food" () recommends that the name "kaffir lime" should be avoided in favour of "makrut lime" because "Kaffir" is an offensive term in certain cultures and also has no clear reason for being attached to this plant. However "kaffir lime" appears to be much more common.

Medina

Medina (; , ' , "the radiant city"; or , ' (), "the city"), also transliterated as Madīnah, is a city in the Hejaz, and the capital of the Al Madinah Region of Saudi Arabia. The city contains al-Masjid al-Nabawi ("the Prophet's Mosque"), which is the burial place of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, and is the second-holiest city in Islam after Mecca.

Medina was Muhammad's destination after his Hijrah from Mecca, and became the capital of a rapidly increasing Muslim Empire, first under Muhammad's leadership, and then under the first four Rashidun caliphs, Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman, and Ali. It served as the power base of Islam in its first century where the early Muslim community developed. Medina is home to the three oldest mosques, namely the Quba Mosque, al-Masjid an-Nabawi, and Masjid al-Qiblatayn ("the mosque of the two qiblas"). Muslims believe that the chronologically final surahs of the Quran were revealed to Muhammad in Medina, and are called Medinan surahs in contrast to the earlier Meccan surahs.

Similar to Mecca, non-Muslims are forbidden from entering the sacred core of Medina or the center of the city.

Medina currently has a population of more than 1,300,000 people (2006). The city was originally known as "Yathrib", but later its name was changed to Madīnat al-Nabī (مدينة ﺍﻟﻨﺒﻲ "city of the prophet") or "Al Madīnah al Munawwarah" ("the enlightened city" or "the radiant city"). The short form "Madīnah" simply means "city". Madina is the second holiest city of Islam, after Mecca (Makkah).

Medina is the second holiest site in Islam after Mecca that's why Medina is very important to Muslims. This is because Prophet Muhammad is buried in a mosque known as 'Masjid-e-Nabawi' or 'The Mosque of The Prophet' located in Medina. The Mosque was built on a site next to Muhammad's home. Muslims believe that Prophets must be buried at the very same place that they die. Accordingly, Muhammad was buried in his house. The tomb later became part of the mosque when it was expanded by the Umayyad Caliph Al-Walid I. The first mosque of Islam is also in Medina. It is known as "Masjid Quba," (the Quba Mosque).

Like Mecca, the city of Medina only permits Muslims to enter. The "haram" (area closed to non-Muslims) of Medina is much smaller than that of Mecca, though. Many facilities on the outskirts of Medina are open to non-Muslims. In Mecca the area closed to non-Muslims extends well beyond the limits of the built-up area. Both cities' numerous mosques are the destination for large numbers of Muslims on their annual pilgrimage. Hundreds of thousands of Muslims come to Medina each year to visit the 'Tomb of Prophet' and to worship at mosques in a unified celebration. Muslims believe that praying once in the Mosque of the Prophet is equal to praying at least 1000 times in any other mosque.



Doctrine

Doctrine (Latin: "doctrina") is a code of beliefs or "a body of teachings".

Doctrine often means several religious dogmas that a church teaches. 
But it can also mean a principle of law, in the common law traditions, established through a history of past decisions, such as the doctrine of self-defense, or the principle of fair use.

In matters of foreign policy, a doctrine, also known as dogma, is group of fundamental rules for a nation's foreign policy. Examples include the Monroe Doctrine, the Stimson Doctrine, the Truman Doctrine, the Eisenhower Doctrine, the Nixon Doctrine, the Brezhnev Doctrine, the Kirkpatrick doctrine, and the Bush Doctrine.

Examples of religious doctrines include:

One department of the Roman Curia is called the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith.

The term also applies to the concept of an established procedure to a complex operation in warfare. The typical example is tactical doctrine in which a standard set of maneuvers, kinds of troops and weapons are employed as a default approach to a kind of attack.

Examples of military doctrines include:

Citron

The citron ("Citrus medica") is a species of citrus fruit. It usually has a thick rind and small sections. Originally, the tree came from Southeast Asia. Today it is mainly grown in Sicily, Morocco, Crete, and Corsica, as well as Puerto Rico. The tree can grow to a size of about 3 metres. The fruit can grow to a size of about 25 cm in length, and about 4 kg in weight. The pulp of the fruit is hardly ever used. The rind is used. It is made into an additive for cooking. Jam can also be made from the rind. The rind is also used to make vegetable oil, which is used for perfumes.

Generally, it is eaten preserved or in bakery goods, such as fruitcakes. (The candied peel rather than the fruit is often used in cooking.) In some cultures, it is made into a fruity tea. Pliny the Elder states that in his time , the citron could only be grown in Media and Persia ("HN" xii.7). The Romans tried to transport it into the Roman Empire in tightly packed pots, but failed, according to Pliny. There is evidence, however, which shows it was cultivated in the Mediterranean during Pliny's lifetime. Zohary and Hopf believe this tree was first domesticated in India. They think that its wild forms, along with those of the mandarin and pomelo, were the original citrus species.

The citron has many names in different countries; one popular reference is "Cedrat", which is the French name for the fruit. Theophrastus referred to the citron as the Persian or Median Apple, and the fruit later came to be known as the Citrus Apple. Pliny calls the tree the Assyrian, or the Median, "apple" (the generic Greco-Roman name for globose fruits). Other citrus crops were not introduced to the Mediterranean basin until Islamic times.

In many languages other than English, a normal lemon is called a "citron" and a Lime is called a "limon". Although the East Asian citrus fruit "yuzu" (also called "yuja") is sometimes called a citron, it is actually a separate species, "Citrus junos". 

The citron fruit is slow-growing. The citron tree is typically grown from cuttings that are two to four years old; the tree begins to bear fruit when it is around three years old. The fruit is oblong in shape, and sometimes as much as six inches in length. Its skin is thick, somewhat hard, fragrant, and covered with protuberances; the pulp is white and subacid. 

In Pliny's time the fruit was never eaten (it began to be used in cooking by the early 2nd century), but its intense perfume was used, penetrating clothes to repel noxious insects (compare Citronella). 

In Hebrew, the citron is known as the etrog (). It is one of the Four Species used during the holiday of Sukkot each fall. The role of the citron in that holiday was portrayed in the Israeli movie Ushpizin. Citrons that have been bred with lemon (in order to increase output per tree and make the tree less fragile) are not kosher for use as part of the Four Species.

In South Indian cuisine, especially Tamil cuisine, citron is widely used in pickles and preserves. In Tamil, the unripe fruit is referred to as 'narthangai', which is usually salted and dried to make a preserve. The tender leaves of the plant are often used in conjunction with chili powder and other spices to make a powder, called 'narthellai podi', literally translating to 'powder of citron leaves'. Both narthangai and narthellai podi are usually consumed with 'thayir sadam' (Curd Rice - Yogurt Rice).

In Korea, it is used to create a syrupy tea (called Yuja cha) where the slices of whole fruit are eaten with the sweet tea. The fruit is thinly sliced (peel, pith and pulp) and soaked or cooked in honey or sugar to create a chunky syrup. This syrupy candied fruit is mixed with hot water as a fragrant tea, where the fruit at the bottom of the cup is eaten as well. Often perserved in the syrup for the cold months, Yuja tea served as a source of fruit in winter. It is also popular in Taiwan, where it is known as 柚子茶 (Youzi cha).
[Note: The Korean Yuja is the same as the Japanese Yuzu 柚子 and must be different from the citron being described in this article. The Japanese Yuzu = Citrus junos.]



Citric acid

Citric acid is a weak organic acid. It can be found in citrus fruits. It is used by organisms for Krebs cycle. It acts like a preservative when added to food. It is also used to add a sour (acidic) taste to foods and soft drinks. In the European Union it is known as E 330, as a food additive.

Carl Wilhelm Scheele was the first who could extract citric acid from lemons, in 1782. The substance was probably known to alchemists, perhaps with a different name. The Arabian alchemist Geber is said to have discovered citric acid in the 9th century. Citric Acid contains 6 Carbon atoms, 8 Hydrogen atoms and 7 Oxygen atoms. Its chemical formula is CHO.



Geber

Jābir ibn Ḥayyān (; ; died between 806 and 816), is the name for the writer of a great number of writings in Arabic. The writings together have the name Jabirian corpus. The most important subjects of these writings are: alchemy, cosmology, numerology, astrology, medicine, magic, mysticism, and philosophy.

Jabir's writings have in them the oldest known list of chemical substances. For the first time, the writings gave an explanation of how to produce an inorganic substance (ammonium chloride) from organic substances (such as plants, blood, and hair).

Modern scholars doubt the historical existence of Jabir. It is probable that one person did not write all of the writings in the Jabirian corpus. Instead, scholars see Jabir ibn Hayyan as a pseudonym that a group of writers used.

Translations into Latin of some of Jabir's Arabic writings (like the "Book of Mercy", and the "Book of Seventy") came into existence in the Middle Ages. In Latin, Jabir had the name "Geber", a transliteration of "Jabir".

In 13th-century Europe an anonymous writer, called pseudo-Geber, started to produce new writings about alchemy under the name Geber. People still read the in the 17th century. The "" was one of the writings that pseudo-Geber produced in the 13th century. It was an influence on early modern chemists like Robert Boyle (1627–1691).


Carl Wilhelm Scheele

Carl Wilhelm Scheele (December 9, 1742 - May 21, 1786) a German-Swedish pharmaceutical chemist, born in Stralsund, Western Pomerania, Germany (at the time under Swedish rule), was the discoverer of many chemical substances, most notably discovering oxygen before Joseph Priestley and chlorine before Humphry Davy.

Micheline Calmy-Rey

Micheline Calmy-Rey (born 8 July 1945) is a Swiss politician. She was Switzerland's foreign minister as head of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs. She was also a member of the Swiss Federal Council from 2003. She was President of the Confederation in 2007 and again in 2011. She resigned her office as member of the Federal Council on 31 December 2011.


Criss Angel Mindfreak

Criss Angel Mindfreak is an American television program. The program is hosted by illusionist Criss Angel. Angel performs many different types of stunts and illusions on the program such as street magic, levitation, and setting himself on fire. The program was first shown on July 20, 2005. It is shown and distributed by the A&E network.


Piano trio

A piano trio is a group of three instruments including a piano. Usually it is a piano, a violin and a cello. This combination of instruments has been a very popular form of chamber music from the Classical music period onwards. A piano trio can also mean a piece of music written for a piano trio to play.

Other combinations of piano with two instruments are often called by the featuring wind instrument. For example: Mozart wrote a trio for piano, clarinet and viola which is usually called a “clarinet trio”. Brahms wrote a trio for piano, violin and French horn which is usually called a “horn trio”.

Music for three people to play at one piano is called music for piano six hands.

Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven all wrote several piano trios for the traditional combination of piano, violin and cello. Beethoven’s last piano trio has the nickname "Archduke" because it was written for the Archduke Rudolph. Franz Schubert wrote two beautiful piano trios.

In the Romantic period some of the best piano trios were written by Felix Mendelssohn, Antonín Dvořák, César Franck and Pyotr Tchaikovsky.

In the 20th century Maurice Ravel and Dmitri Shostakovich each wrote a famous piano trio.

Alfred Cortot, Jacques Thibaud and Pablo Casals were world famous musicians who played and recorded piano trios in the early 20th century.
During the second half of the 20th century the Beaux Arts Trio were the best known group. Today there are many young musicians who play piano trios, including three Japanese sisters called the Fujita Piano Trio who play a lot of their music all from memory.

Franz Grillparzer

Franz Grillparzer (born Vienna, 15 January 1791 – died Vienna, 21 January 1872) was an Austrian dramatist and poet. His dramas include three plays (a “trilogy”) called "Das Goldene Vliess" ("The Golden Fleece").

Two other famous plays are "Des Meeres und der Liebe Wellen" ("The Waves of the Sea and of Love") and "Der Traum, ein Leben" ("The Dream, a Life"). Although he said he was not interested in prose his short story "Der arme Spielmann" ("The poor minstrel") is probably the best known of his works and one of the best short stories of the 19th century. Grillparzer wrote the funeral speech for Beethoven's funeral in 1827.

Legacy

An Austrian pastry is named after him: the Grillparzertorte.

Pastry

Pastry is the dough from which some baked products are made. Pastry dough is rolled out thinly and used as a base for baked products. It is made from ingredients such as flour, sugar, milk, butter, shortening, baking powder, and/or eggs. Common pastry dishes include pies, tarts, quiches and pasties.

Pastry is also the name given to various kinds of baked products. Small cakes, tarts and other sweet or savoury baked products are called "pastries." 

Greek food such as Spanakopita are made from pastries.


Johann Georg Albrechtsberger

Johann Georg Albrechtsberger (born 3 February 1736 in Klosterneuburg near Vienna; died 7 March 1809 in Vienna) was an Austrian composer, organist, music theorist and music teacher. He is most known today because he was Beethoven’s teacher for a time.

From the age of seven, Albrechtsberger was a choirboy. He had lessons in organ and music theory. As an adult, he had several jobs in churches in small towns. He became Kapellmeister at St Stephen’s Church, Vienna in 1793. This was the best job for a church musician in the empire.

Albrechtsberger wrote hundreds of compositions. He wrote most of them before he got the job in Vienna. He wrote in a classical style. Albrechsberger enjoyed doing things with music which were not normally done. He would ask string players to tune their strings in different ways (called “scordatura”). He would also write slow movements with muted strings. As well as classical sonatas he wrote lots of fugues. Several people, including Mozart, thought of him as the greatest organist in the world.

Albrechtsberger was a very important music teacher. Joseph Haydn thought he was the best teacher in Vienna. He was very interested in contrapuntal music of the Baroque period. He copied many fugues by Bach and other composers.

When Beethoven was a young man, he had some composition lessons from Joseph Haydn. When Haydn was going to travel to England for several months, he asked Albrechtsberger to teach Beethoven while he was gone. These lessons took place from 1793 to 1795. A few years later, Albrechtsberger said about Beethoven that “he learned absolutely nothing and will never accomplish anything decent”. Beethoven said that Albrechtsberger was a “musical pedant”. However, Beethoven still studied Albrechtsberger’s books on music theory. The string quartets which Beethoven wrote near the end of his life show the influence of Albrechtsberger.

Fidelio

Fidelio is an opera in two acts by Ludwig van Beethoven. It is Beethoven's only opera. The German libretto is by Joseph Sonnleithner based on a French story. The opera tells how Leonore, disguised as a prison guard called "Fidelio", rescues her husband Florestan from death in a political prison.

"Fidelio" is an example of a “rescue opera”, a type of opera which was popular at the time. The hero (or heroine) has to fight against cruel people in order to rescue a lover. It was written at the time of the French Revolution. At this time, ideas about freedom and peace were being talked about by everyone, and this led to wars all over Europe. The famous Prisoners’ Chorus is a song for freedom, just like the last movement of his Ninth Symphony.

Beethoven spent some time working on the opera before he was completely happy with it. The first time it was performed (in 1805) it was a three-act opera called "Leonore". There were a lot of French military officers in the audience and they thought they were being criticised. In 1806 it was performed again with two acts and a new overture (now known as "Overture: Leonore No. 3"). But arguments between Beethoven and the theatre management meant there were no more performances. Eight years later Beethoven revised his opera again. This time it was called "Fidelio", and it was a great success. It has remained a famous opera ever since.

The setting is a Spanish state prison, a few miles from Seville, in the late 18th century.

Jaquino is a prison guard. He wants to marry Marzelline, the daughter of Rocco who is the warden of the prison. But Marzelline has just fallen in love with someone she thinks is a man called Fidelio. Actually Fidelio is a woman who has dressed up as a man so that she can get into the prison where her husband Florestan is a prisoner (he has been arrested for political reasons). She is pretending to return Marzelline’s love so that she can find a way of rescuing Florestan. Rocco says he is happy for Marzelline to marry Fidelio. Fidelio (Leonore) says she will help Rocco with his job of looking after the prisoners. Rocco says she can do this, but there is one prisoner she is not allowed to guard. He has been locked up alone for two years. Leonore thinks it may be her husband, but she is not sure.

Don Pizarro, the military governor of the prison, hears that the prison is going to be looked at by inspectors who make sure that the prison is being properly managed. He knows that he should not have locked Florestan up, so decides to kill him before the inspection starts. He asks Rocco to dig the grave so that he can get rid of the body quickly. Rocco does not want to do this, but has to agree.

Leonore lets the prisoners have a walk in the garden. Rocco tells Leonore that he must help him dig the grave. Rocco is very cross that the prisoners are walking in the garden, but Rocco says they should be allowed because it is the King’s name-day. Rocco says they should be locked up again. So he locked them again.

Florestan sits alone in his cell. In his mind he imagines an angel who looks like his wife who is telling him to come to Heaven.

Leonore goes with Rocco to the prisoner. She is still not sure whether it is her husband. She gives him some bread. When Pizarro comes he gets ready to kill Florestan, but Leonore stands between them and tells Pizarro she will shoot him if he comes nearer. A trumpet is heard playing a fanfare because the Minister is arriving.

Outside the prison the Minister says that all the prisoners are now free. He is horrified to find Florestan among the prisoners, because he is his friend. The crowd ask for Pizarro to be punished. Leonore frees her husband from his chains and the crowd say that she is a great heroine.

Beethoven made several changes to the opera at different times. This included writing four different overtures. They are called "Leonore 1", "Leonore 2", "Leonore 3" and "Fidelio". The overture "Fidelio" is the one that is normally heard now at the beginning of the opera. "Leonore 2" was the overture performed at the first performance in 1805. "Leonore 3", composed in 1806, is the most famous of the overtures. "Leonore 1" may have been written in 1805, or it may have been intended for a performance in 1807 in Prague which never took place". Sometimes the "Leonore 3" overture is played during Act II between the two scenes. However, many people think it does not work dramatically there. It is usually heard today as a separate concert piece. The overture "Fidelio" was composed for performances of the opera in 1814.

Für Elise

"Für Elise" (German for "For Elise") is the common name of the song "Bagatelle in A minor." It was written for the piano by the composer Ludwig van Beethoven in 1810. The song is thought to be written for Therese, a woman that Beethoven wanted to marry in 1810. It is believed that his handwriting was not translated correctly when the song was transcribed. This caused the piece to be known as "Fur Elise" rather than "Fur Therese". 

The piece of music was not published until 1865. This was a long time after the death of Beethoven. It is one of the most well-known pieces of piano music in the world.

The piece is in rondo form. There is a main section (A) which appears three times. Between these three sections there are two other sections (B and C), so the form of the piece can be described as: A B A C A.

The main section has a time signature of 3/8. It is based on arpeggios which flow from one hand to the other. This is the section that many beginner pianists want to play. The two middle sections are harder to play at the correct speed. They have fast scales, arpeggios and left hand demisemiquavers (32nd notes).



Teplice

Teplice (German name: Teplitz) is a city in Bohemia, the western area of the Czech Republic. Teplice (pronounced in Czech: “Tep-li-tse”) is a famous spa town where, in earlier times, lots of famous people went for holidays to improve their health. Goethe, Beethoven, Chopin, Franz Liszt and Richard Wagner all stayed there.

Teplice lies between Prague and Dresden in a mountain area called Krušné hory (Iron Mountains). In the year 762 hot springs were found there. The waters from these springs helped people who were ill to get better so it became a spa town.

Since 1990 many buildings have been restored. The Krušnohorské divadlo (Krušnohorské theatre) is now being refurbished. The North Bohemia Philharmonic Orchestra give concerts there in the open air. There is a museum and many restaurants, wine bars and cafés. In the winter the mountain slopes are good for skiing.


Symphony No. 9 (Beethoven)

Symphony No. 9 in D minor, Op. 125, is a symphony written by Ludwig van Beethoven. It is one of the most famous pieces of music ever written.

A symphony is a piece of music for orchestra. Beethoven wrote nine symphonies. This one, the last one he wrote, is very unusual because the last movement also has singing in it: there are four soloists (soprano, alto, tenor and bass) and a choir. This is why it is known as the “choral” symphony (“choral” means: “for choir”). It is a very long work, lasting more than an hour. This, too, was unusual.

This symphony has four movements. The first movement is in sonata form. The second and third movements come the other way round from the usual order: the second movement is the scherzo and the third movement is the slow movement. It is a theme and variations. The last movement sets the words of a poem by Friedrich Schiller, a famous poet who had only recently died. The poem was called "Ode an die Freude" (in English: "Ode to Joy"). The poem has a strong message to all mankind: it is about living in peace and harmony together. It was written at the time of the French Revolution when these ideas were becoming very important in Europe.

The main tune of the last movement (sung to the words: “Freude, schöne Götterfunken, Tochter aus Elysium”) is one of the best known tunes in the world. Many children like to play it on instruments because the first part of the tune only uses five notes (it can be played on C, D, E, F, G). When the tune comes the first time in the symphony it is played by the cellos and double basses.

The "Ode to Joy" was adopted as Europe's “National anthem” in 1972, with an official arrangement for orchestra written by Herbert von Karajan.

Beethoven had been interested in Schiller’s famous poem since he was young. In 1817 he started to write the first two movements of the symphony. In 1822 he decided to use Schiller’s poem in the symphony. Most of the rest of the symphony was written in 1823 and he finished it in 1824. It was first performed in May of that year. Beethoven conducted the performance. The story is told that he wondered why the audience were not applauding when it had finished. They were applauding, but Beethoven was deaf so he could not hear. Caroline Unger, the alto soloist, made him turn round, and he saw that people were applauding enthusiastically.

Shatin Pui Ying College

Shatin Pui Ying College () is a Christian secondary school in Hong Kong. Its English name is simply said to be SPYC or PYC. It was started in 1978, and uses the money given by the Hong Kong government. There are 4 classes each for Forms 1 to 6 (as in 2019). The school icon is an eagle, which means courage and determination. Its location is at 9 Fung Shun Street, Wo Che Estate, Sha Tin District, Hong Kong.

The school teaches its students for public examinations. The school motto is: Faith, Hope, Love" (「信、望、愛」). The school teaches the students other things to gain higher qualities of moral (德), intelligent (智), physical (體), social (群), art (美) and heart (靈).

The father of the school is Rev Henry Noyes. In 1879, he built a school in Guangzhou, teaching Mathematics and Science. Later he built more schools in Taishan, Jiangmen and Hong Kong.

In 1978, someone built the 5th school which is Shatin Pui Ying College. Mr Wong Wai Wah was the Principal. In the first year, the school worked on the campus of Baptist Lui Ming Choi Secondary School at Lek Yuen Estate. In September 1979, the school could move into Wo Che Estate. The school library was opened since September 1982.

In order to make it possible for all the Form 3 students to study as Form 4 in the school, the school changed the class structure. The Student Union was set up in September 1995 and Parent-Teacher Association in 1996. In 1996, Principal Wong gave up working and the Vice Principal Ms Yau Oi Yuen started doing his work. The elite class system was deleted in September, 1996.

The library system was changed to use computer since September 2001. The new wing building of the school has been finished since July 2005. In the new wing, there are classrooms for higher forms classes, a new library, some special rooms and computer rooms.

Exchange students from Italy and Germany help the students learn English. The school has many English activities such as English Tutorial Class, English Drama Competition, Form 1 Bridging Programme, Lyrics-writing Course, English Immersion Speech Competition, Interviewing Tourists, English Phonetics Class, English Enhancement Course, Summer English Class, Overseas Immersion Course, Summer English Camp for senior form students, Summer English Day Camp for junior form students, Intra-school and Inter-school English Debate Competitions and English Musicals.

The Chinese Language teachers write their own teaching units for the students. There are many Chinese activities such as Creative Writing Class, Chinese Week, Prose Writing Class, Reading Club, Modern Poetry Writing Class, Verse-speaking Gathering, Story Writing Class, and Seminar on Reading, Seminar on Modern Poetry, Intra-school and Inter-school Chinese Debate Competitions and Report and Comment on Chinese Words of Wisdom.

The school teaches Putonghua. There are many activities such as Putonghua Day, Tongue-Twisters, Putonghua Class, Singing Contest, Putonghua Broadcast and Putonghua Corner. Students in the school can learn more about the Chinese culture from the activities such as Workshop on Chinese clipart, Chinese Tea Tao and Chinese Culture and General Studies Competition.

All Form 1 new students are Band 1 students. All of the Form 3 students can study as Form 4 in the school. Students have good results in public examinations. The average passing percentage for the HKCEE and HKALE is higher than 90%. The best student in HKCEE got 8As in 2004.

All Form 6 students in the school are from the Form 5 in the same school, except the exchange students from other countries. Most of the Form 7 students can study in the universities these years.

According to the government, the school teaches Chinese language, English language and Mathematics very well from 2000 to 2006.

The school gives the good students some awards, such as scholarships, Academic Awards, Flying Eagle Awards and Improvement Awards. The school gives money to some students to take part in some inter-school competition and courses in some universities such as the University of Hong Kong, the Chinese University of Hong Kong and the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. There are some tutorial classes to improve junior students' skills in both English and Chinese languages and also Mathematics.

Reading Time is designed to help students having a good reading habit. Reading Days are held by the school library for all students to read or to take part in activities related to reading.

There are many computer subjects in the school, such as Information Technology (IT) for Forms 1 to 3, Computer and Information Technology (CIT) for Forms 4 and 5, and Computer Applications (CA) for Forms 6 and 7.

The school has organised 3 musicals, The Comeback Kid, Soul for Sale and The Last Move. The songs inside are written by the students and past students. Every Form 1 student has to play at least 1 musical instrument. The Photography Club and the Audio-Visual Group teaches students many skills, such as film editing, image recording, lighting, backdrop setting and sound engineering.

The school invites some guest speakers to the school to give speeches. Students can know more about the political, social and economic issues in Hong Kong and around the world. The school lets the students to join some extracurricular activities such as "The Youth Summit", "Dinner with Outstanding Citizens" and "Hong Kong International Model United Nations". The school lets the students to join mainland and overseas cultural tours.

The students can take leadership-training courses and extracurricular activities, such as activities such as “Youth Leaders Auditorium 2005”, “The 6th Basic Certificate Course for Student Leaders”, “Outstanding Leadership Development Programme” and “Youth Think Tank Training Project”. There are Free Talks so that students can have better training in giving speeches.

This award is only for the students who have good learning habit, good examination results, good self-discipline, good responsibility, community skills and studies in school activities. There are 4 phases in this award. Students can get a Bronze Eagle Badge in Phase 1, a Silver Eagle Badge in Phase 2, a Gold Eagle Badge in Phase 3 and a cup in Phase 4.

There are many activities to teach students about the Christian principles, such as Gospel Week, Gospel Camp Evangelical Team, Evangelical Broadcast, Bible Study Groups and Christian Fellowship.

There is a school song with Chinese lyrics. Its melody is the same as the song O Christmas Tree and there are two paragraphs. There is also a school hymn with English lyrics. There are three paragraphs in this school hymn.

All boys in the school wear white shirts and green trousers, and all girls wear white dresses with green drawstrings as summer uniform. The boys wear grey trousers and the girls wear grey dresses with white socks as winter uniform. Both boys and girls wear green ties when wearing winter uniform.

When students have physical education lessons, they wear PE uniform. From 2000, students can wear PE uniform to school without changing at school. From 2001, the PE uniform has been changed into a new format that is grey and blue in colour. The PE T-shirts have 3 different colours, namely black, blue and red, with respect to the students’ house.

The class names are combined with one number and one English character, such as “6B”. After the New Secondary School program was out, the number of classes and students per class was changed. There are about 30 students in each class from Form 1 to Form 6. 1A and 1B are remedial classes whereas 1C to 1E perform better in exams. The classes are mixed when students go into Form 2 or Form 3.

All Form 3 students have to choose their subjects after finishing their year. After finishing years of High Form study, students have to join the public exam, DSE (usually in April).

Each Form forms a House, with its own chairman and committee members elected by the students in the own Form. Each House has its own colour such as black, blue or red, just like the students’ PE uniform. The forms from the same colours form some cheering teams during the sports days.

There are 2 sports days every year. The sports days take places on the Yuen Wo Road Sports Ground. Besides the various types of sports competitions, there are competitions among the cheering teams. The swimming gala is held every year with the Pui Ying Secondary School. It takes place on the Hong Kong Island or Sha Tin District alternatively every two years.

Students in the school take parts in many external competitions in many fields such as music, sports, debates, writings, mathematics and other academic competitions. One of the most notable competitions is the Hang Lung Mathematics Award. The school’s HLMA team got an Honourable Mention in 2004 and a Special Commendation in 2006.

The Student Union was established in November 1994. Its election activity is held in November every year. It helps the school setting new school rules and improves students’ lives. It organises activities such as blood donation days and ball game competitions.

It is formed by some teachers, social worker and psychologist to teach students how to have a true value.

It helps students plan for their future by giving them information about different study opportunities and the world of work.

Some students may be naughty, so there are some prefects catching the naughty students.

The school library has over 20000 books available to students. Every year there are about 100 school librarians. The book borrowing system was changed from man power only into computer system in 2001. The location of it was moved to the new wing building of the school in 2005. It organises Reading Day every year.

It is made up of an IT technician and some teachers. They work together to provide the up-to-date information for the use of IT in teaching and learning. It trains the teachers and maintaining computer hardware and software. It also provide some advanced computers and facilities including digital video cameras and viewers.

There are 5 groups of extracurricular activities, including studying, services, entertainment, sports and Christian programme. They are divided into 40 clubs and activity groups.

It teaches the students about civic education. There are many activities for the students to join..

It is formed by a group of Christian teachers and Christ's Harvest Church to organize some special activities, Morning Assembly and Fellowship.

The school has good relationship with Guangzhou Pui Ying, Xiguan Pui Ying, Jiangmen Pui Ying, Taishan Pui Ying and Pui Ying Secondary School. In Canada, there is a Pui Ying Christian Services Society Pui Ying Alumni Associations can be found all over the world, such as in the USA, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, England, South Africa, Japan, Peru, Singapore, Thailand, Guangzhou, Taishan, Jiangmen and Taiwan.



Heuristic

A heuristic is a practical way to solve a problem. It is better than chance, but does not always work. A person develops a heuristic by using intelligence, experience, and common sense. Trial and error is the simplest heuristic, but one of the weakest. Rule of thumb and 'educated guesses' are other names for simple heuristics. Since a heuristic is not certain to get a result, there are always exceptions.

Sometimes heuristics are rather vague: 'look before you leap' is a guide to behaviour, but 'think about the consequences' is a bit clearer. Sometimes a heuristic is a whole set of stages. When doctors examines a patient, they go through a whole set of tests and observations. They may not find out what is wrong, but they give themselves the best chance of succeeding. This is called a diagnosis.

In computer science, a 'heuristic' is a kind of algorithm. Algorithms are written to get a good solution to a problem. A heuristic algorithm might usually find pretty good solutions, but there is no guarantee or proof that the solutions are correct. The time it takes to run the algorithm is another consideration.

Heuristics is the art of finding an adequate solution to a problem, using limited knowledge and little time. More formally, heuristics are based on experience; they can speed up the search for a solution using simple rules. A complete search may take too long, or may be too difficult to do.

In more precise terms, heuristics are strategies using readily accessible, though loosely applicable, information to control problem solving in human beings and machines.

Heuristics can be used in some fields of science, but not in others: For economics, a solution that is one percent off is often acceptable; a telescope that has an error of one degree is probably unusable if aimed at a far-away object. The same telescope pointed to the window across the street will probably tolerate this error; missing by one degree will not have a big impact on a short distance.

Heuristics can be used to estimate an answer which is then made more clear by performing an exact solution at a very small scale, perhaps to save time, money or labor on a project - for example a heuristic guess as to how much weight a bridge is expected to carry can be used to determine whether the bridge should be made of wood, stone or steel, and appropriate quantities of the needed material can be purchased while the exact design of the bridge is being completed.

However, the use of heuristics in certain very technical fields may be damaging computer science is one example. Programming a computer to perform more or less the desired actions may result in severe glitches. Therefore, computer tasks generally must be fairly exact. However, there are certain areas in which computers can calculate heuristic solutions safely for example Google's search technology relies heavily on heuristics, producing "near-miss" matches to a search query when an exact match cannot be found. This enables a user to correct for any mistakes the search produces. Example: Searching for the name "Peter Smith" and unable to find that exact name, the search engine heuristically matches "Pete Smith" instead, and the person using the search engine must decide whether Pete and Peter are the same person.

Here are some other commonly used heuristics, from Polya's 1945 book, "How to Solve It":

One example where heuristics are useful is a kind of packing problem. The problem consists of packing a number of items. There are rules that need to be respected. For example, each item has a value and a weight. The problem now is to get the most valuable items, with the least weight possible. Another instance is fitting a number of differently-sized items into a confined space, like the trunk of a car.

To get the perfect solution to the problem, all possibilities must be tried. This is often not a good option, as trying them takes a long time, and on average, half the possibilities must be tried until a solution is found. So what most people will do is to start with the biggest item, fit it in, and then try to arrange the other items around it. This will give a good solution, most of the time. There are cases however, where such a solution is very bad and another technique must be used.

Therefore, this is a heuristic solution.

Mersenne prime

In mathematics, a Mersenne number is a number that is one less than a "power of two".

A Mersenne prime is a "Mersenne number" that is a prime number. This however, is not sufficient. Many mathematicians prefer the definition of a Mersenne number where exponent "n" has to be a prime number.

For example, "31 = 2 − 1", and 5 is a prime number, so 31 is a Mersenne number; and 31 is also a Mersenne prime because it is a prime number. But the Mersenne number "2047 = 2 − 1" is not a prime because it is divisible by 89 and 23. And "2 − 1 = 15" can be shown to be composite because 4 is not prime.

Throughout modern times, the largest known prime number has very often been a Mersenne prime. Most sources restrict the term "Mersenne number" to where "n" is prime, as all Mersenne primes must be of this form as seen below.

Mersenne primes have a close connection to perfect numbers, which are numbers equal to the sum of their proper divisors. Historically, the study of Mersenne primes was motivated by this connection; in the 4th century BC Euclid demonstrated that if "M" is a Mersenne prime then "M"("M"+1)/2 is a perfect number. In the 18th century, Leonhard Euler proved that all even perfect numbers have this form. No odd perfect numbers are known, and it is suspected that none exist (If it exist, it would have to be greater than 10).

It is currently unknown if there is an infinite number of Mersenne primes. Most mathematicians who have studied the question think there are an infinite number of Mersenne primes. Carl Pomerance, Samuel S. Wagstaff Jr. and Hendrik Lenstra developed a formula which they think should say about how many Mersenne primes there are under a given number.

The binary representation of 2 - 1 is "n" repetitions of the digit 1.

For example, 2 - 1 = 11111 in binary.

The first four Mersenne primes were known by the Ancient Greeks. They are 3, 7, 31 and 127. The next, 8191, was discovered in 1456. Some people like trying to find big primes. Since there are tricks and algorithms to finding Mersenne primes quickly, the largest known primes are also Mersenne primes.

As of December 21, 2018, 51 Mersenne primes have been found. The largest known prime is a Mersenne prime, formula_1.

Insolation

Insolation is derived from the words "incoming solar radiation". Insolation is specifically applied to radiation which is arriving at earth’s atmosphere first and then earth's surface. The heat is derived from solar energy, normally called solar radiation. Insolation is the solar radiation that reaches the earth's surface. It is measured by the amount of solar energy received per square centimetre per minute. Similarly, solar energy received by the earth is called insolation. It is the amount of incoming solar radiation that is received over a unit area of the earth’s surface. Solar energy received over the planet’s surface varies according to season, latitude, transparency of the atmosphere, and aspect or ground slope.

Insolation affects temperature. The more the insolation, the higher the temperature.

In any given day, the strongest insolation is received at noon.

The amount of insolation received on the earth’s surface is not uniform everywhere. It varies according to the place and time. When the tropical regions receive maximum annual insolation, it gradually decreases towards the poles. Insolation happens more in summers and less in winters. The major factors which influence the amount of insolation received are:


At the top of the earth’s atmosphere, received insolation is expressed as the solar constant. It receives at the top of the atmospheric surface (thermopause) on a perpendicular plane to the solar beam. The average insolation received at the thermopause i.e.1368Wm2(Watt per squaremetre)energy(solar constant) is in the form of short wave. Thus, it is termed as solar constant for that mean distance from the sun. These solar constant is varying over 1 Wm2 by periodic disturbances and explosions in the solar surface basically related to sun spot. Sun spots are dark and cooler areas visible on the sun’s surface.The recent researches have shown that more and more energy is released when the sunpots are in large number.The number of sunspots also increases or decreases on a regular basis, creating a cycle of 11 years.

Since the earth is a geoid resembling a sphere, the sun’s rays strike the surface at different angles at different places. This depends on the latitude of the place.The higher the latitude, the less is the angle they make with the surface of the earth.
The area covered by the vertical rays is always less than the slant rays. If more area is covered, the energy gets distributed and the net energy received per unit area decreases. Moreover, the sun’s rays with small angle traverse more of the atmosphere than rays striking at a large angle.

The length of the day determines the duration of sunlight, which affects the amount of solar radiation received by the earth’s surface. The more hours of sunshine, the greater the quantity of solar radiation will be received by a particular place. For example, at the equator, days and nights are each 12 hours in all the months, but in the Arctic and Antarctic regions, the sunny time varies between 0 and 24 hours. On the autumn and spring equinoxes (September and March respectively), the sun is overhead at the equatorial noon. The night and day all over the earth are equal on these days. Thhe maximum amount of insolation is received at the equator on those days, and the amount of insolation decreases towards the poles. This is because sunshine is vertical at the equator but with increasing latitudes, the rays become more and more slanting. Therefore, poleward, the received energy flux is less.

The earth is revolving around the sun in an elliptical orbit, resulting continuous change in the distance between sun and the earth on annual basis. It leads to seasonal variation in solar energy received by the earth.The mean distance between the earth and sun is about 149,600,000 kilometers(92,900,000 miles).When earth position is farthest(152 million km) from sun is known as ‘aphelion’ on July 4. It is perihelion(147 million km)occurs on January 3 each year which is the closest distance. During aphelion the northern hemisphere is facing the sun and therefore receives energy about 7 percent less than the perihelion (southern hemisphere).
Atmosphere is not transparent for all the radiation coming from the sun because of different composition and layers. It is also one of the controlling factors of insolation to reach earth surface. The atmosphere is composed of gases, water vapour and particulate matters.The atmosphere is a mixture of gases,such as nitrogen(N), oxygen (O2), Argon, carbon dioxide, Neon (Ne), Helium (He), Methane (CH4), Krypton (Kr), Ozone (O3), Nitrous oxide (N2O), Hydrogen (H) and Xenon (Xe). The atmosphere also contains water vapour, water in the gaseous state.

The longer the duration of daylight, the more the insolation received per day.

The Settlers II

The Settlers II is a real-time strategy (RTS) computer video game. It was released by Blue Byte Software in 1996.

Hugo Chávez

Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías (IPA: ) (July 28, 1954 – March 5, 2013) was president of Venezuela from 1999 until his death in 2013. He was the leader of the "Bolivarian Revolution" and promoted his vision of democratic socialism, Latin American integration, and anti-imperialism. Chávez was also an ardent critic of neoliberal globalization and U.S. foreign policy.

Chávez was a career military officer. He founded the left-wing Fifth Republic Movement after a failed coup d'état against former President Carlos Andrés Pérez. Chávez was elected to serve as president in 1998. This was mainly because he promised to help the poor majority of Venezuelan people. He was re-elected in 2000, and 2006.

He started a movement called Bolivarian Missions. Its goal is to fight disease, illiteracy, malnutrition, poverty, and other social problems. Abroad, Chávez is known for supporting alternative models of economic development. He also spoke in favor of a collaboration of poor nations, especially those in Latin America. On September 20, 2006, Chávez made a speech to the UN General Assembly. Chávez said that U.S. President George W. Bush is "The devil came here yesterday, and it smells of sulfur still today".

Chávez's reforms have caused controversy, both inside Venezuela, and outside the country. Some people criticized the reforms, others supported them. Those people who support the reforms say that he has given more power to the poor, and that he has stimulated economic growth. Those who argue against the reforms say that he is an autocrat who has mismanaged the economy.

Some governments, especially the government of the United States saw Chávez as a threat to global oil prices, as well as to regional stability. Others sympathize with his ideology or welcome his bilateral trade and reciprocal aid agreements.

In 2005 and 2006 he was named one of "Time" magazine's 100 most influential people. Chavez has received many prizes: He has received honorary doctorates from the University of Beijing, the university of Rio de Janeiro, the university of Santo Domingo, and Kyung Hee University in South Korea.

Chávez said he was a Roman Catholic. Much like his predecessor Simon Bólivar, Chávez tolerated elements of belief systems,popular in Venezuela, such as the María Lionza cult and Sanería. These movements mix Roman Catholic belief with other elements, such as those of Voodoo and Shamanism. Chavez also put emphasis on the social ideas of the Catholic church, and remained in the background when it came to discussing controversial ideas. His ideas caused controversy with some clerics of the Catholic church, and some evangelical movements. While he was na pilgrimage, cardinal Rosalio Lara said that those that did not have the same ideas as the people in power were persecuted, and that Chavez' way of running the country was undemocratic.

He had an operation on his pelvis to remove his colorectal cancer. In January 2013, his cancer worsened and was put on life support. Chávez put his daughter in charge whether he should live or die. He was treated for the disease in Cuba and in Venezuela. On February 27, 2013 rumors said that his daughter stopped the life support on February 23. Later on February 28, the Vice President said that Chávez was fighting for his life. Chávez died of colorectal cancer on March 5, 2013.

On March 5, 2013 Vice President Nicolás Maduro announced on state television that Chávez died in Caracas, Venezuela at 16:25 VET (2055 UTC). The cause of his death was a heart attack caused by colorectal cancer and respiratory failure. He battled cancer since June 2011. He is survived by his three daughters and one son. Leaders from the world shared reactions about Chávez's death.


Granule

Granule is a generic term used for a small particle or grain. The generic term is used in a lot of contexts.


Granule (cell biology)

In cell biology, a granule can be any structure barely visible by light microscopy. The term is most often used to describe a secretory vesicle.

A group of leukocytes called granulocytes contain granules and play an important role in the immune system. The granules of certain cells, such as Natural killer cells, contain components which can lead to the lysis of neighboring cells. 

The granules of platelets are classified as dense granules and alpha granules.

Cytosol

The cytosol (also known as intracellular fluid (ICF) or cytoplasmic matrix, or groundplasm) is the internal fluid of the cell, and a part of cell metabolism occurs here.

Proteins within the cytosol play an important role in signal transduction pathways and glycolysis.

Cytosol mostly consists of water, dissolved ions, small molecules, and large water-soluble molecules (such as protein). It contains about 20% to 30% protein.

Normal human cytosolic pH is (roughly) 7.0 (i.e. neutral), whereas the pH of the extracellular fluid is 7.4.

The texture of cytosol being described as granular can be attributed to the fact that in order to study the texture, an electron microsope must be used, which requires a process of dehydration prior to study.

"Life: the science of biology". Purves, Sadava, Orians, Heller. Sunderland, MA. Sinauer Associates, Inc. 2004. (ILM USA)

Joan Jett

Joan Jett (born September 1958) is an American singer and guitarist. She is best known for her number one single "I Love Rock n Roll". Jett has a punkish, tomboy appearance and is a Democrat.

In 2015, she was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

Marble

Marble is a metamorphic rock that developed from limestone. Most of the material is calcite (a crystalline form of calcium carbonate, CaCO) and dolomite. It is often used for sculpture, as a building material, and for many other purposes.

The word 'marble' is also used for other stones that can be polished well and for ball shaped objects used for child games. 

'Faux marble' is a wall painting technique that imitates the color patterns of real marble (not to be confused with paper marbling). Marble dust can be combined with cement or synthetic resins to make "reconstituted" or "cultured marble".

Marble has been used in construction for thousands of years. It was widely used by Greek and Roman sculptors and architects. Places named after the stone include Marble Arch, London; the Sea of Marmara; India's Marble Rocks; and the towns of Marble, Minnesota; Marble, Colorado; and Marble Hill, Manhattan, New York. The Elgin Marbles are marble sculptures from the Parthenon that are on display in the British Museum. They were brought to Britain by the Earl of Elgin.

In the construction trade, the term "marble" is used for any massive, crystalline calcitic rock (and some non-calcitic rocks) useful as building stone. 

Purbeck marble is a fossiliferous limestone found in the Isle of Purbeck, a peninsula in south-east Dorset, England. It has been quarried since at least Roman times as a decorative building stone. The industry is no longer active.

Tennessee marble is really a massive, highly fossiliferous gray to pink to maroon Ordovician dolostone, known as the Holston Formation by geologists. "Tennessee marble" is not true marble. Its crystalline nature gives it a resemblance to marble, especially when polished. 
Carrara marble is a genuine marble. It is white or blue-grey and of high quality, popular for use in sculpture and building decor. It is quarried at the city of Carrara in the Lunigiana, the northernmost tip of modern-day Tuscany, Italy. The illustration shows the "Pietà", which is a masterpiece of Renaissance sculpture by Michelangelo. It is in St. Peter's Basilica, Vatican City, and is the only piece Michelangelo ever signed.

Colorless marbles are a very pure source of calcium carbonate, which is used in a wide variety of industries. Finely ground marble powder is a component in paint, toothpaste, and plastics; calcium carbonate can also be reduced under high heat to calcium oxide (also known as "quicklime"), which has many uses including being a primary component of most cements.



Fan fiction

Fan fiction or fanfiction (also known as fanfic) is a name for fiction created by fans instead of the original author.

Fanfiction writers take fictional characters and settings from fictional (or sometimes historical) stories that were created by other people, and write original stories about them. People write fan fiction for many different book, television series, and movie fandoms.

When fanfiction first began, it was often only published in fan magazines. Today fanfiction, like many fandom activities, can be usually found on the internet. This has created many fanfiction communities. People in these communities post their fanfiction and receive feedback (reviews) from other community members.

There is also fan art (also called fanart), which is often drawings or other visual art based on a fandom.



Three Laws of Robotics

The Three Laws of Robotics are three rules which Isaac Asimov thought should be programmed into robots. The rules assume that robots will be human-type machines, able to walk about and do things. Asimov called these robots "positronic robots". The laws are presented in his 'Robot' series of short stories and novels.

The first mention of the laws is in Asimov's short story "Runaround" (written in 1942). 

Later, Asimov added the Zeroth Law: "A robot may not harm humanity, or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm"; the rest of the laws are changed one by one so that there can be no reason for a robot to break the Zeroth Law. .

According to the "Oxford English Dictionary," the passage in Asimov's short story "Liar!" (1941) that mentions the First Law is the earliest recorded use of the word "robotics". Asimov was not aware of this at the time; he assumed the word already existed by analogy with "mechanics," "hydraulics," and other similar terms denoting branches of applied knowledge.

The Three Laws form a theme in his "Robot" series and the other stories linked to it, as well as his Lucky Starr series of science fiction for children. Other authors working in Asimov's fictional universe have adopted them, and references (often parodic) appear in science fiction and other genres. Technologists in the field of artificial intelligence have speculated upon the role the Laws might have in the future.


Nathuram Godse

Nathuram Vinayak Godse (, May 19, 1910 – November 15, 1949) was an Indian Nationalist, Activist, and the man who assassinated Mahatma Gandhi.

Nathuram Godse was born at Baramati, Pune District, British India. His father was Vinayak Vaman Rao Godse, his mother was Lakshmi (Godavari before marriage). His father was a fifteen-rupee-a-month employee of the post office. He would drop out of high school and become an activist for the party 

The immediate motive for the assassination is usually ascribed to Gandhi's January 13, 1948 decision to fast to the death unless the Indian central government reversed a decision to withhold the transfer of 55 crore (550 million) rupees to the government of Pakistan. The transfer had been specified in the partition agreement, but the Indian government had refused to complete it, complaining of continued Pakistani rebel occupation of disputed parts of Kashmir.

The Indian government immediately reversed its decision to withhold the funds, which infuriated Godse and his fellow Hindu nationals.

The decision to assassinate Gandhi was taken by Godse alone. The Mahasabha resolutely denied all complicity, and Godse took full responsibility. 

Godse assassinated Gandhi on January 30, 1948, approaching him during the evening prayer, bowing, and shot him three times at close range. Godse was convicted of murdering Gandhi, for which he was executed by hanging.


Cradle of Filth

Cradle of Filth is an extreme metal band from England. Some people say the band’s musical style is black metal, others say that it is gothic metal, extreme metal, or many other different styles. Cradle of Filth had many different members. It was founded by Dani Filth in 1991. He is still the leader of the band. Cradle of Filth is very well known and has enjoyed success on TV and the radio.



Makoto Sakurai

Sakurai was arrested for spitting on another person at a protest. The United States Department of State criticized his actions with Zaitokukai.


George Adamski

George Adamski (April 17, 1891 – April 23, 1965) was a Polish-born American who became known in ufology circles after he said he photographed ships from other planets, met with aliens, and took flights with them. He considered himself to be a "philosopher, teacher, student and saucer researcher." 

Efficiency

Efficiency could mean:


Donkey Kong

Donkey Kong is a Nintendo video game character. He was first seen in a video game in 1981. He is a large gorilla who lives deep in the jungles of his very own island. Since 1994 he has worn a red necktie with his initials "DK" in yellow, his only piece of clothing. He appears as both the hero and villain of the "Donkey Kong" games.



Categorical imperative

The categorical imperative is an idea that the philosopher Immanuel Kant had about ethics. Kant said that an "imperative" is something that a person must do. For example: if a person wants to stop being thirsty, it is "imperative" that they have a drink. Kant said an imperative is "categorical," when it is true at all times, and in all situations. 

Kant named the example of a thirsty person the Hypothetical Imperative. Kant used the "hypothetical" imperative to explain his ideas about the ethics of a "categorical "imperative. For example, it is not usually a moral choice when a person decides to drink water, no matter why they are drinking the water. If a person is very thirsty, then it is a hypothetical imperative that they drink the water. 

Instead of the hypothetical imperative, Kant said that the moral choices are governed by a categorical imperative. The categorical imperative is something that a person must do, no matter what the circumstances. It is imperative to an ethical person that they make choices based on the categorical imperative. Another way of saying that, is that an ethical person follows a "universal law" regardless of their situation. 

Kant explained his ideas about following the categorical imperative by introducing one more idea he called a "maxim." A maxim is another way of saying what we want to do and why we want to do it in one sentence. We can learn ethical maxims by applying the test of the categorical imperative. And he said we can live ethical lives if we use these maxims whenever we make decisions. 

The categorical imperative, hypothetical imperative, and the maxim can all be seen in the example of the thirsty man. A man locked alone in a room for one night, and he brought nothing with him except a bottle of water. The man has had nothing to drink all day and is very thirsty. We can call this man, "Thirsty Man." A hypothetical imperative might be that ""a thirsty man must drink water if he wants to stop being thirsty."" If Thirsty Man lived by a maxim based on this hypothetical imperative, it might be ""If I can, I will drink water whenever I am thirsty."" In this example, Thirsty Man is not making any obvious moral choice. Some philosophers would say that the Thirsty Man's maxim is a reasonable one. Based on Thirsty Man's maxim, he will soon drink the water. A few minutes later a second man is brought into the room. Both men are told that they will be in the room all night, and that no one else will be back to see them until morning. Thirsty Man has not yet opened the water bottle. The new man has not had anything to drink for many days. The second man is clearly dying of dehydration. If he is not given water soon he will die. We can call this second man, "Dying Man." Thirsty Man now has a decision to make, will he share the water or drink it himself? Thirsty Man does not live by the maxim of "I will drink water when I am thirsty," because that maxim fails the test of being universally fulfilling the "categorical imperative." Thirsty Man believes that the categorical imperative is the Golden Rule. To be an ethical person, Thirsty Man believes he must at all times treat others the way he would want them to treat him. From the categorical imperative of the Golden Rule, Thirsty Man has adopted a maxim of ""I will give anything I can to anyone I meet, if that person needs what I have much more than I need it."" Thirsty Man prepares to decide if he will drink the water that he wants to drink, or if he will give it to Dying Man. Thirsty Man tests both choices by comparing them to his maxim. He sees that it is "imperative " that he give the water to Dying Man. Thirsty Man gives the water to Dying Man. Dying Man drinks nearly the entire bottle, but then he chokes on the last sip. There is nothing Thirsty Man can do to stop the choking, and Dying Man dies. There are many philosophies of ethics, and many philosophers who have very different opinions. Some philosophers might say that it would have been ethical if Thirsty Man had kept the bottle for himself to drink. It was his bottle to begin with and he could do whatever he wanted with it. Other philosophers might say that Thirsty Man was ethically wrong to give the bottle to Dying Man because the water ended up choking the Dying Man to death. 

Kant's idea of the categorical imperative would say that Thirsty Man made the right choice, for the right reasons, and he made those ethical decisions in a logical way. 

An important part of Kant's idea is that the morality of a choice is based on why we make the choice (intention), and not based on what happens after we make it (consequence). Another important part of Kant's idea is that these ethical decisions are not rules or laws handed down to us (universal law or objectively true ethical statement). Kant thought that ethical decisions needed to be based in logic and reason (correct reasoning or deductive reasoning). 

Kant said that we should treat other persons as persons and not as tools who can help us in some way. He said we should do this based on the ethical duty that all persons have to each other, an ethical duty which could be called a universal law. Kant's ideas about this universal law and the categorical imperative are important basic components of the philosophy of Absolutism. 

Multiculturalism

Multiculturalism is a word that describes a society where many different cultures live together. It is the simple fact of cultural diversity.

In a multicultural society, there is not an official (decided by the people in charge) culture that every person must be a part of. Instead, all cultures are respected as much as each other.

A multicultural society can result when people from many different countries migrate to one place, or an empire conquers many countries. Tolerance is a big help for multiculturalism. Xenophobia makes it difficult. 

A multicultural society would be composed of people from different ethnic backgrounds and cultures living and working together. In society when people from different backgrounds link with each other's culture shows the acceptance of each other's culture and background.


Comfort women

Comfort women were women and girls forced into sexual slavery. These women, mostly Korean and Chinese, were forced by the Imperial Japanese Army in occupied territories before and during World War II. There are different estimates of how many comfort women there were. Most researchers say there were probably around 50,000 to 200,000 comfort women. One source says the number of comfort women was closer to 20,000 while another says there were as many as 410,000.

Glycolysis

Glycolysis is a metabolic process in most organisms. It is the first stage in cellular respiration. It allows both aerobic and anaerobic respiration. Glycolysis releases only a small amount of energy. The word "glycolysis" comes from the Greek words γλυκύς (meaning "sweet") and λύσις (meaning "rupture").

Glycolysis is thought to be the archetype of a universal metabolic pathway. It occurs, with variations, in almost all organisms, both aerobic and anaerobic. The wide occurrence of glycolysis shows that it is one of the oldest known metabolic pathways.

Glycolysis has ten intermediate compounds, catalysed by ten different enzymes. Only the broad outline is described here.

The first half of glycolysis is the preparatory phase. It starts off by adding a phosphate group to glucose (Glucose 6-phosphate). Next, the Glucose 6-phosphate is converted into Fructose 6-phosphate. Another phosphate group is added turning it into fructose -1,6- biphosphate. The fructose -1,6-biphosphate is then split in two, one part turning into G3P (Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate) and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. The dihydroxyacetone phosphate is converted into G3P, leaving us with the two G3P triose sugar molecules used in the Pay-off phase.

The second half of glycolysis is known as the 'pay-off phase', by the net gain of the energy-rich molecules ATP and NADH. Since glucose leads to two triose () sugars in the preparatory phase, each reaction in the pay-off phase occurs twice per glucose molecule. This yields 2 NADH molecules and 4 ATP molecules, leading to a net gain of 2 NADH molecules and 2 ATP molecules from the glycolytic pathway per glucose molecule.

Summary: 2ATP → 4ATP + 2(NADH + H+) + 2 pyruvate (net production of 2ATP)

Cells performing aerobic respiration (respiration using oxygen) synthesize much more ATP, but not as part of glycolysis. These further reactions use the pyruvate from glycolysis. 

Eukaryote aerobic respiration produces about 30 additional molecules of ATP for each glucose molecule.
Glycolysis, through anaerobic respiration, is the main energy source in many cells.



Archetype

In psychology, an archetype is a model of a person, personality, or behavior.

In the analysis of personality, the term "archetype" is often broadly used to refer to

But in a strict linguistic sense, an archetype is merely a defining "example" of a personality type. In this sense "mother figure" can be considered an archetype and instances can be found in various female characters with distinct personalities.

Archetypes have been present in mythology and literature for hundreds of years. The use of archetypes to analyze personality was advanced by Carl Jung early in the 20th century. The value in using archetypal characters in fiction derives from the fact that a large group of people are able to unconsciously recognize the archetype, and thus the motivations, behind the character's behavior.

The word "archetype" appeared in European texts as early as 1545. It derives from the Latin noun "archetypum" via the Greek noun "arkhetypon" and adjective "arkhetypos", meaning "first-moulded". The Greek roots are "arkhe-" ("first" or "original") + "typos" ("model", "type", "blow", "mark of a blow").



Prototype

A prototype is an original type, form, or instance of something. (usually in engineering) It serves as a typical example or standard for things of the same category. Some prototypes are used to find defects or to test an idea. Building a prototype of each idea and testing them is a good way to choose a final design.

Prototypes are built for different reasons:

Archetype (disambiguation)

Archetype can mean:

Microdon

Flies in the genus Microdon are a type of hoverfly. "Microdon" and its subfamily are different from most other flies because they are myrmecophiles. This means they live in ant colonies (nests). There are more than 350 species of "Microdon" in the world. Some of these will be split off in time because "Microdon" has been used as a catch-all for various unrelated species. Most "Microdon" live in the tropics; 30 species live in North America.

"Microdon" adults are very hairy and look like bees. They are 8 to 15 mm long. The antennae are almost as long as the fly's face. These flies have black or pale (white or golden) hairs, and their bodies are either black or metallic green or blue.

The larvae of "Microdon" flies look strange. They are very round and look like stout little slugs. At first scientists thought they were mollusks and scale insects. They move slowly.

Adult "Microdon" flies do not hover around flowers such as many other hoverflies; instead they remain close to the ant colonies where they grew up.

Larvae may be found very deep in ant nests. Some "Microdon" larvae eat ant larvae (Duffield 1981); others are scavengers, which means they eat dead plants or insects in the ant colony. Most "Microdon" larvae can only live in the colony of one kind of ant.

Pattern

A pattern is an idea, a concept or a model. The model is usually abstract, and can then be applied to the domain where it is used. Pattern matching is checking if a certain pattern is present. Many patterns can directly be recognised by the senses. 

Some patterns are based on the fact that there are repetitions, that a certain thing occurs over and over again. An example of a simple pattern might be the tiling of a floor. For example, lots of bathrooms have a paisley or floral tiling pattern on the floor. In computer science, design patterns are model solutions for problems that occur often. Sometimes people see patterns when there are none. This is called pareidolia.

In Mathematics, there are many different patterns. For example, the Fibonacci sequence is a complex type of pattern. There are some simple ones like:

1, 2, 4, 8, 16, ...

In this pattern, the next number is the product of the previous number multiplied by 2. Basically a mathematical pattern is a sequence of numbers which follows one rule.

Bean

Bean is the name used for the seeds of plants. Most of these plants are known as legumes. Their scientific name is Fabaceae. Common beans, lentils, soybeans, peas are some types of beans. Beans contain a lot of fibre. They are also high in protein. Vetches and lupins are all in that group of plants but not all legumes are edible. Laburnums for example are very poisonous as are some lupins. 

The seeds of other plants (which are not Fabaceae), are sometimes also called beans. This is mostly because they look like true beans. Example for such beans are Coffee beans, Cocoa beans, and Vanilla beans.

Luxembourg franc

The Luxembourg Franc was the type of currency used in Luxembourg from 1848 to 1999. Belgium was another country that used the Luxembourg Franc. The symbol for the Luxembourg Franc is fr. or F. On January 1, 1999, the Luxembourg Franc was replaced by the Euro (€). 1 Euro is equal to about 40 Luxembourg Francs.

There were different types of Luxembourg Francs, like 25 cent, 1, 20, and 50 Francs.


Belgian franc

The Belgian franc was a type of money. It is nearly the same as its partner, the Luxembourg franc. The Belgian franc was founded in 1848 in Belgium. The symbol for the Belgian franc is fr. or F. It was replaced by the euro (€) on January 1, 1999. One euro has the same value as about forty Belgian francs.

The different types of coins used were 1, 5, 20, and 50 francs. 50 cents was another type of coin, but is not common.

The different types of banknotes used were 100, 200, 500, 1000, 2000 and 10000 francs.


Paradise Island

Paradise Island is an island in the Bahamas. The island is just north of the island of New Providence, Bahamas. There are two bridges connecting the two islands. One was built in 1999 and the other one was built in the late 1990s.

Paradise Island (and all of the Bahamas) is known for its sandy white beaches and all year round warm climate. The island is also is known for Atlantis, a hotel and casino.

Paradise Island is a hot spot for filming movies. The Beatles film "Help!" and James Bond movie "Casino Royale" are only some of the movies filmed on Paradise Island.


Eddie Izzard

Edward Jonathan "Eddie" Izzard (born 7 February 1962) is an English actor and stand-up comedian. He has acted in movies and television. He is known for his strange comedy and for being a transvestite (he often wore women’s clothes, before deciding he wanted to be recognised not as a male lesbian but as a full blown ‘woman’ named Suzy' such a shame s/he could not have been herself as is, without any the fuss!! If s/he just accepted who ‘they’ were, and as that equally recognised and loved as equally funny. Eddie/ Suzy Izzard is ..A true star of comedy, surrealist stage screen hero!

Izzard has described herself as "a lesbian trapped in a man's body".


Emulator

An emulator is a computer program or software that makes one kind of computer behave like a different one, so that it can use the same programs or do the same things as the other one. They are best for using old software and games on newer computers. They can be hardware that you add to the computer, or software that you use on it. Some types of emulators require newer computers that have the right system requirements. For example, you need a processor that is fast enough to meet the demands of the emulator. Memory (both RAM and hard drive space) may be another factor to help it run smoothly and more accurately. With the more advanced emulators, if your computer is too old, the emulator or even the operating system may crash.

The simplest type of emulator is called an interpreter, and it runs the foreign program one step at a time. This is the slowest type of emulator but it is easy to debug and port to new platforms. Another type is called the dynamic recompiler, and it takes foreign code a block at a time and recompiles (converts) it into native code. Foreign code that has already been converted is kept, so if the foreign program uses that code again, the emulator does not have to recompile it again. This type of emulator is much faster than the interpreter. Another type is the hypervisor, which only makes slight modifications to the foreign code, and runs it directly on the host processor. The hypervisor requires that the guest (foreign) and host systems use the same type of CPU.

ReactOS

ReactOS is a project to develop an operating system that is compatible with software for Microsoft Windows Server 2003 and its successors. In 2018, the project is still in its first stage of development. ReactOS is not based on Linux or Unix. ReactOS uses some code from the Wine project.


MenuetOS

MenuetOS (also known as MeOS) is an operating system for architecture computers for x86 and x86-64 processors, by Ville Mikael Turjanmaa. It is a very small system, which can be run from a floppy disk. It is written in only assembly code, and works fast because of these differences and because it has less "code overhead".
It is available in English, Russian, Czech, Serbian, and Chinese.

SkyOS

SkyOS is a discontinued prototype operating system. SkyOS is mostly POSIX-compliant. It comes with the core of the open source GNU tools, including GCC.

Many Linux or other UNIX programs, like AbiWord and Gaim, run on SkyOS thanks to its POSIX compliance and GTK+ support. Some games, like "Quake", have also been ported.

Development started in 1996. Its first version was released in December 1997.

Up until version 4.x the OS was free. After 2003, SkyOS's beta version cost $30.

It was made by Robert Szeleney.


Jodie Foster

Jodie Foster (born Alicia Christian Foster; November 19, 1962) is an American actress, movie director and producer. She has starred in many movies like "Bugsy Malone", "Taxi Driver", "The Silence of the Lambs" and "Panic Room". She has won many awards including two Oscars. 

Foster began directing movies in 1991. These include "Little Man Tate"; "Home for the Holidays" and "The Beaver".

Foster is openly lesbian and is married to photographer Alexandra Hedison. Hedison is the daughter of actor David Hedison.


President of the French Republic

The President of the French Republic is the head of state of France. The current President is Emmanuel Macron since 14 May 2017 defeating Marine Le Pen in the second round of the presidential election on 7 May 2017.

There are two living former French presidents:

Context

The word Context have a couple of meanings:



Context may also be used for:



Orthodoxy

Orthodoxy means right belief or purity of faith. Orthodoxy is established by an absolute authority. 

The term "orthodoxy" or "orthodox" is typically used to label or identify a specific kind of theology and doctrine of religion.
Orthodoxy or "correct" belief is not subjective.


Corn Pops

Corn Pops is a breakfast cereal made by Kellogg's. It was originally called Sugar Pops in 1951, and then changed Sugar Corn Pops, and then to "Corn Pops" and in January of 2006 the name of the cereal was changed to Pops, only to be changed back to Corn Pops several months later. In the middle of 2007, Corn Pops made a new kind of cereal called "Peanut Butter Pops".




Końskowola

Końskowola is a village in Southeastern Poland. It is the capital of a separate commune within Puławy County and the Lublin Voivodeship. It has 2,188 inhabitants (as of 2004).

The town was established on June 8, 1532. Końskowola served as a center of the foodstuffs trade for the surrounding area. Several textile production factories were also located there. 
During World War II, on September 15, 1939, Końskowola was taken by German troops and occupied. During the course of WWII, the Germans set up a POW camp and camps for slave labor in the town. The POW camp was soon stopped, but a labor camp continued in operation through 1943. 

A ghetto was established in the town, to which many groups of Jews were relocated, including Jews from Slovakia. On May 8, 1942, the Nazis conducted an "Aktion" in which many Jews were rounded up and transported to a death camp. In October 1942, the ghetto's population was killed in a massacre carried out by German troops. Some 800-1000 Jews, among them women and children, were taken to a nearby forest and killed. The ghetto's remaining inhabitants were moved to another camp.

With the approach of Soviet Union forces in the summer of 1944, the Germans had plans to burn the town. On July 25, 1944, the German occupation forces were attacked by fighters of the Polish resistance. The town was soon freed from the Germans.

Erich Maria Remarque

Erich Maria Remarque (22 June 1898 – 25 September 1970) was the pseudonym of Erich Paul Remark, a German author.

Erich Paul Remark was born in Osnabrück. His parents were of the working-class. The family was Roman Catholic. When he was eighteen, he had to go to war. The Army sent him the front lines of World War I. He was wounded there, by stray shell fragments. After the war, he changed his last name to "Remarque". This had been the family-name until his grandfather's time. He worked at a number of different jobs. He also took the jobs of librarian, businessman, teacher, journalist and editor, at some time.

In 1929, Remarque published his most famous work, "All Quiet on the Western Front" ("Im Westen nichts Neues") under the name "Erich Maria Remarque". He Changed his middle name to honour his mother. The novel described the utter cruelty of the war from the perspective of a twenty-year-old soldier. A number of similar works followed; in simple, emotive language they realistically described wartime and the postwar years. An opposite view is found in "Storm of Steel" ("In Stahlgewittern") by Ernst Jünger.

In 1933, the Nazis banned and burned Remarque's works. They made propaganda materials. In the materials, they said that he was a descendant of French Jews and that his real last name was Kramer, his original name spelled backwards. This is still listed in some biographies despite the complete lack of proof. He had been living in Switzerland since 1931, and in 1939 he emigrated to the United States of America with his first wife, Ilsa Jeanne Zamboui, whom he married and divorced twice, and they became naturalized citizens of the United States in 1947. In 1948 he went to Switzerland, where he spent the rest of his life. He married the Hollywood actress Paulette Goddard in 1958. He was married to her until his death in 1970, at age 72. He is buried in the Ronco cemetery in Ronco, Ticino, Switzerland. Goddard is also buried there. Goddard left $20m to New York University to fund an institute for European study which is named after Remarque.



His books have been translated into at least 58 languages.



Bellinzona

Bellinzona ([] in French "Bellinzone" [] and "Bilitio" [] in Latin) is the capital of the Swiss Canton of Ticino. Its German name "Bellenz" [] is no longer in use. With about 17.300 people living there, it is the second biggest city of the canton (after Lugano, with about 52.000 people).

On 2 April 2017 the former municipalities of Camorino, Claro, Giubiasco, Gnosca, Gorduno, Gudo, Moleno, Monte Carasso, Pianezzo, Preonzo, Sant'Antonio and Sementina merged into the municipality of Bellinzona.

J. R. Richard

James Rodney "J. R." Richard (March 7, 1950 – August 4, 2021) was an American Major League Baseball starting pitcher for the Houston Astros. Richard was excellent in basketball and baseball in high school. He was drafted by the Houston Astros in the first round of the 1969 amateur draft. He made his baseball debut on September 5, 1971, and pitched a complete game and had fifteen strikeouts. After that, he was one of the top pitchers in the National League, and in all of baseball. He led the league in many pitching categories. They include strikeouts, earned run average (ERA) and hits allowed per nine innings.

On July 30, 1980, Richard suffered a stroke and collapsed while playing catch before a game. He was sent to Methodist Hospital in Houston, Texas and had emergency surgery. The surgery removed a dangerous blood clot in his neck. The next year, Richard tried to make a comeback into baseball, but the stroke had slowed down his reaction time and vision. He then spent the next few seasons in minor league baseball. He was later released by the Astros on April 27, 1984. After baseball, Richard was involved in business. He had a few bad business deals and went through two divorces. This left him homeless in 1994. He then found help in a local church, and then became a minister and baseball instructor for young people in Houston.

Richard died on August 4, 2021 at a hospital in Houston, aged 71. The cause of death was problems caused by COVID-19.


Conrad Lant

Conrad "Cronos" Lant (born 15 January 1963) is the vocalist and bass player in black metal band Venom. He was born in 1963 in London, England.

Cronos started to sing in 1978 in the band "Guillotine". Then he knew Jeffrey "Mantas" Dunn and they founded Venom.

In 1989 Cronos left the band to start a solo work. Venom could not go on without him and they stopped singing in 1993. Then Cronos returned in 1995 and rejoined the band.


County Wicklow

County Wicklow (Irish: "Contae Chill Mhantáin") is a county on the east coast of Ireland. It is directly south of Dublin. County Wicklow has an area of 2,024 square kilometres (781 sq mi). Wicklow is known as "The Garden of Ireland" because of its scenery.

The county town is Wicklow. County Wicklow's largest municipality is Bray. Bray has a population of 30,951 and is not a suburb of Dublin. Other main towns include Greystones and Arklow.


Lusaka

Lusaka is the capital of Zambia. It is also the largest city in that country. It is in south central Zambia on a plateau at 1300 m (4265 ft) in altitude. Lusaka has 1,084,703 people living in it.

Shield

A shield is the name used to refer to any object or force used to block something.

The oldest shield known was a device used to block hand weapons and arrows. The shield has been constructed differently over time, even animal hides were used, and the size and weight were largely different as well.

In the Middle Ages, Kite shields were commonly used. The Kite shield is a shield in the form of a kite. Because of the lack of mobility due of the kite shields' weight, kite shields were given up for more mobility and two handed weapons. The Buckler was a shield with a round shape. It was commonly used as a replacement for the heavy Kite shields.

Shields were used even after gunpowder weapons. the shield is still used by police and army forces today. Many shields now in days are usually made from advanced material, as well as electronics. Shields also vary from not only hand helds, but clothing, such as vests and, in a way, boots and gloves.

The future of shields have varied from multiple ideas and fiction, usually force fields and energy shields.

Kite shield

A kite shield is a Middle Age shield in the shape of a kite. The kite shield was used by many knights and people for protection, but was given up for two-handed weapons and more mobility.
The efficiency of the kite shields shields shape came into action when cavalry combat occurred, useful to protect most of the body from the shoulders down to the feet, giving the knight more options in combat.

Gerbilling

Gerbilling is an urban legend. This means it a story that is not true. It is the act of placing a gerbil into the human rectum for sexual pleasure. Other small live animals (usually gerbils but also mice, hamsters, rats and various other rodents) are used.

Folklorist Jan Harold Brunvand writes that the urban legend began in 1984. It involved a mouse and an unidentified gay man. In passing years this story changes into a gerbil, and was made to involve to many named male celebrities that were publicly thought to be gay. Rumors about various male celebrities engaging in gerbilling have become popular urban legends over the years. 

In Poland, World War II historian Marek Jan Chodakiewicz lectured on gerbilling at the Institute of National Remembrance's educational center, describing that his ex-girlfriend Debbie, a registered nurse, extracted a fat-smeared hamster from the rectum of a gay man in 1984. Polish media stated that the hamster story is a well known urban legend, so well known that it has a Wikipedia page.


Socialist Party (France)

The Socialist Party ("Parti Socialiste", PS) is a political party in France, historically the largest left-wing party from its creation in 1969 to the 2000s, then, since the 2010s, a center-left party.
It is one of the social democratic parties. 

It first won power under the Fifth Republic with François Mitterrand's victory at the 1981 presidential election. 
The party's candidate for the 2007 presidential election, Ségolène Royal, was defeated by Nicolas Sarkozy by about 53% to 47%. In 2012, Socialist Party's candidate François Hollande won the presidential election.

After the failure of the Paris commune (1871), French socialism was figuratively beheaded. Its leaders were killed or exiled. France's first socialist party, the Federation of the Socialist Workers of France ("Fédération des travailleurs socialistes de France" or FTSF), was founded in 1879. 

In 1899, the participation of Millerand in Pierre Waldeck-Rousseau's cabinet caused a debate about socialist participation in a "bourgeois government". Three years later, Jaurès, Allemane and the possibilists founded the French Socialist Party while Guesde and Vaillant formed the Socialist Party of France. Then, in 1905, during the Globe Congress, the two groups merged in the French Section of the Workers International ("Section française de l'Internationale ouvrière" or SFIO). Jaurès became the party leader.

The French socialists were strongly pacifist, but following the assassination of Jaurès in 1914 they were unable to resist the wave of militarism which followed the outbreak of World War I.

The Socialists suffered a severe split over participation in the wartime government of national unity. In 1919 the anti-war socialists were heavily defeated in elections. In 1920, during the Tours Congress, the majority and left wing of the party broke away and formed the French Section of the Communist International ("Section française de l'Internationale Communiste" or SFIC). This party joined the Third International, that was founded by Lenin. The right wing, led by Léon Blum, kept the "old house" and remained in the SFIO. 

In 1934, the Communists changed their line, and the three parties came together in the Popular Front, which won the 1936 elections and brought Blum to power as France's first Socialist Prime Minister. 

After the liberation of France in 1944, the SFIO had a coalition with a powerful Communist Party (which became the main left-wing party) and the Christian Democratic MRP. This alliance did not survive the Cold War. Blum proposed the construction of a Third Force with the center-left and the center-right, against the Gaullists and the Communists. However, his candidate to lead of the SFIO, Daniel Mayer, was defeated by Guy Mollet.

Mollet was supported by the left wing of the party. Paradoxically, he spoke a Marxist language without questioning the alliance with the center and the center-right. He was Prime Minister at the head of a minority government in 1956. The SFIO returned to opposition in 1959. 

The SFIO did not nominate a candidate for the 1965 election. Consequently, it supported the candidacy of François Mitterrand, a former minister of the Fourth Republic who had been a conservative, then an independent of the left. He was resolutely anti-Gaullist. He obtained an honourable result and faced De Gaulle in an unexpected second ballot. He thus appeared as the leader of the non-Communist left.
In order to exist between the Communist Party, leading the left, and the Gaullist Party, leading the country, the SFIO, Radicals, and left wing republican groups created the Federation of the Democratic and Socialist Left under Mitterrand's leadership.

In 1969 the SFIO was replaced by the Socialist Party ("Parti socialiste" or PS). It was joined by pro-Pierre Mendès-France clubs (Union of Clubs for the Renewal of the Left led by Alain Savary) and left-wing republican groups (Union of Socialist Groups ad Clubs of Jean Poperen). During the Issy-les-Moulineaux Congress, Alain Savary was elected First Secretary with the support of his predecessor Guy Mollet. He proposed an "ideological dialogue" with the Communists.

Two years later, pro-François Mitterrand clubs (Convention of the Republican institutions), joined the party. Mitterrand defeated the Savary-Mollet duo by proposing an electoral programme with the Communists. 

In 1981 Mitterrand defeated the neoliberal Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, to become the first socialist elected President of France by universal suffrage. 

The PS lost the majority in the French National Assembly in 1986, forcing Mitterrand to "cohabit" with the conservative government of Jacques Chirac. Nevertheless, Mitterrand was re-elected President in 1988 with a moderate programme entitled "united France". He proposed neither nationalisations nor privatisations. He chose as Prime Minister the most popular and moderate of the Socialist politicians, Michel Rocard. His cabinet included 4 center-right ministers but it was supported by only a plurality in the National Assembly elected in June 1988. 

During his second term, Mitterrand focused on foreign policy and European construction.

In opposition, the PS reconstructed a coalition with the other left-wing forces: the PCF, the Greens, the Left Radical Party and the MDC. This "Plural Left" ("Gauche plurielle") gained the 1997 legislative election and Jospin became Prime Minister of the third "cohabitation".

His policy was broadly progressive but had little to do with socialism as traditionally understood. The Aubry laws reduced the working time to 35 hours a week. A universal medical cover was instituted. However, the policy of privatization was pursued. 

On April 21, 2002 Jospin was eliminated at the first round of the presidential election. 

In the 2004 regional elections, the Socialists had a major comeback. In coalition with the former "Plural Left", they gained power in 20 of the 22 metropolitan regions (all except Alsace and Corsica) and in the four overseas regions. In fact, it benefited from a "sanction-vote" against the right. 

On 1 December 2004, 59% of the members of the Socialist Party decided to approve the proposed European Constitution. However, several well-known members of the Party, including Laurent Fabius, and left-wingers Henri Emmanuelli and Jean-Luc Mélenchon, asked the voters to vote "no" in the 29 May 2005 French referendum on the European Constitution, at which the proposed Constitution was rejected. 

For the 2007 presidential election, many potential candidates appeared: François Hollande, Laurent Fabius (who has joined the left-wing of the party), Dominique Strauss-Kahn (who claimed he represented "social-democracy"), Jack Lang, Martine Aubry and Ségolène Royal, who was favourite according to the polls. 

On 16 November 2006, the members of the Socialist Party chose Ségolène Royal to be their candidate with a majority of 60%. Her challengers, Strauss-Kahn and Fabius, obtained 21% and 19% respectively.

After obtaining 25% of the vote in the first round of France's presidential elections Ségolène Royal qualified for the second round of voting but lost to Nicolas Sarkozy on May 6, 2007.

First secretaries from 1969:



Anomie

Anomie means the absence of the usual moral or ethical values, where a person or group lacks ethical standards. In the context of society or government it may be a cause of social unrest.

The word comes from Greek, namely the prefix "a-" “without”, and "nomos" “law”. The original meaning of "anomie" was "against or outside the law". 

In contemporary English the word "anomie" can mean not only normlessness but also anarchy. Émile Durkheim and later theorists, meant with "anomie" a reaction against or a retreat from the regulatory social controls of society, and is a completely separate concept from anarchy which is an absence of effective rulers or leaders.

In Albert Camus’s existentialist novel "The Stranger", the protagonist Meursault struggles to construct an individual system of values as he responds to the disappearance of the old. He exists largely in a state of "anomie", as seen from the apathy evinced in the opening lines: "“Aujourd’hui, maman est morte. Ou peut-être hier, je ne sais pas”" (“Today Mother died. Or maybe yesterday, I don't know.”) 

Dostoevsky, whose work is often considered a philosophical precursor to existentialism, often expressed a similar concern in his novels. In "The Brothers Karamazov", the character Dimitri Karamazov asks his atheist friend Rakitin, ”...without God and immortal life? All things are lawful then, they can do what they like?” Raskolnikov, the anti-hero of Dostoevsky’s novel "Crime and Punishment", puts this philosophy into action when he kills an elderly pawnbroker and her sister, later rationalizing this act to himself with the words, “...it wasn’t a human being I killed, it was a principle!”

On Hermann Hesse´s "Der Steppenwolf" we can also find a very clear picture of anomie. The protagonist affirms that the men of the Dark Ages did not suffer more than those of the Classical Antiquity, and vice-versa. It is rather those who live between two times, those who do not know what to follow, that suffer the most. In this token, a man from the Dark Ages living in the Classical Antiquity, or the opposite, would undergo a gulping sadness and agony.



Fog

Fog is a meteorological phenomenon. It is stratus clouds on the surface of the Earth. Fog may appear on land or sea and it usually lowers visibility (makes it hard to see very far). When the air chills, moisture will turn to fog.

Fog is made up of tiny water droplets or, in very cold conditions, ice crystals. When seen on a high speed camera, (a special camera that takes many frames and can view videos at very low speed) it looks like hundreds of small water droplets moving through the air. These water droplets make up the fog or mist. 

There are many types of fog, classified according to what makes the condensation. They include evaporation fog, advection fog, radiation fog, and upslope fog. The thickness of fog varies depending on the atmosphere, temperature, weather and location.

Frost

Frost is ice that is formed when water vapor freezes onto a surface. It has a white, powdery appearance. It forms on cold surfaces when the temperature of the air is very low. It can destroy crops. This can cause mass hunger.

Many plants can be damaged or killed by freezing temperatures or frost. This varies with the type of plant and tissue exposed to low temperatures. Greenhouses help to protect crops from cold and frost damage.

1983 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1983 Atlantic hurricane season was the least active Atlantic hurricane season during the Satellite Era. The season officially started on June 1, 1983, and ended on November 30. The seaon had only a total of 4 named storms, which was less than half of the average number of storms in a season. In addition, it was the least active season since ACE recording began in 1950.

The most strongest and deadliest storm of the season was Hurricane Alicia, which hit Texas causing great destruction and killing 21 people directly. The damages it brought totaled up to be $2 billion.

This was a small depression that affected the Lesser Antilles, but did not cause much damage.

Alicia formed in the north-central part of the Gulf of Mexico on August 15. It traveled west, strengthening into a hurricane. It quickly reached Category 3 strength as it approached the Texas coastline, and made landfall at Galveston, Texas on August 18 at its strongest intensity. The storm then moved northward, its eye passing over Houston. Alicia still kept its tropical characteristics while over land, but eventually becoming extratropical and combining itself with another storm over northern Kansas on September 21. A total of 21 people died in the storm, which caused $5.1 billion (2005 USD) of damages.

An African tropical wave crossed the Atlantic Ocean and strengthened into Tropical Storm Barry for a short time just off the east coast of Florida on August 24. Barry weakened to a depression just before it made landfall near Melbourne, Florida, but managed to cross the Florida peninsula and continued west across the Gulf of Mexico. In the central Gulf, it began to restrengthen, and was a minimal Category 1 hurricane when it made landfall in northeastern Mexico. Barry then began to quickly weaken over land at about 1200 UTC August 29 and soon dissipated.

A group of scattered tropical thunderstorms 200 km south of Bermuda, strengthened into the fifth tropical depression of the 1983 season. An Air Force Reconnaissance aircraft found winds of 35 kt (40 mph, 65 km/h) and was named Tropical Storm Chantal. Chantal continued to strengthen and developed into a minimal hurricane with 75 mph (120 km/h) winds on September 11 and maintained that strength until September 13, when it weakened back into a tropical storm.

Chantal travelled northeast over open waters, missing the island of Bermuda, before weakening and being destroyed by a frontal system on September 15. As Chantal never made landfall, no damage or fatalities were reported that was related to the storm. However, Chantal created giant waves that were 30–40 ft (9–12 m) high across the East Coast of the United States.
This was a depression that formed over the Lesser Antilles. It caused no major damage.
Tropical Storm Dean was a short-lived storm that began as a subtropical storm which developed between Bermuda and the Bahamas on September 26. The subtropical storm headed north-northeast and became tropical the next day. Gale warnings were issued from North Carolina to New England that were produced by Dean, but the storm turned northwest and made landfall on the eastern shore of Virginia on September 30. The storm died out several hours later. Dean was one of only two tropical storms ever to make landfall in eastern shore of Virginia, the other storm being Tropical Storm Bret from the 1981 season.

Overall damage turned out to be light with only minor beach erosion and flooding along parts of the Virginian coastline.

The table on the right shows the ACE for each storm in the season. ACE means the measure of the power of the hurricane multiplied by the length of time it existed, so storms that last a long time, as well as particularly strong hurricanes, have higher ACEs. ACE is only calculated for full advisories on tropical systems at or exceeding 35 knots (39 mph, 63 km/h) or tropical storm strength. The 1983 season had a cumulative ACE of 16.86 (17), which is extremely below normal and currently the least active season on record since 1914, which had an ACE rating of 2.53.


Alexandra Feodorovna (Alix of Hesse)

Alexandra Fyodorovna (; born Princess Alix of Hesse and by Rhine, 6 June 1872 – 17 July 1918) was Empress consort of Nicholas II, the last Tsar of the Russian Empire. She was a granddaughter of Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom. The Russian Orthodox Church canonised her as Saint Alexandra in 2000.

Alexandra is best remembered as the last Tsarina of Russia. She is also one of the most famous royal carriers of the haemophilia disease. Her friendship with the Russian mystic Grigori Rasputin was also an important part of her life.

Alexandra Fyodorovna was born Princess Alix Viktoria Helene Luise Beatrix in Darmstadt, Hesse and by Rhine. That area was a part of the German Empire at the time. Her father was Grand Duke Louis IV. Her mother was the former Princess Alice, the second daughter of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert.

In November 1878, diphtheria swept through Hesse. Alix, her sisters, Irene and May and brother, Ernst were infected by the disease. Her sister, May, died shortly before the end of the month but the others got better. Alix's mother became sick after caring for Ernie when he came down with the disease. Princess Alice died on December 14, 1878. Princess Alix became very close to her maternal grandmother. She was often thought to be Victoria's favourite granddaughter. Because of this, Alix spent many of her early years in the United Kingdom. In 1892 when she was twenty, her father died, and her brother, Ernst, became the Grand Duke of Hesse and by Rhine.

When she grew up, Alix was a beautiful woman, with reddish-blonde hair, high cheek bones, pale skin, dark blue eyes, and long dark eyelashes. Alix was married relatively late for a princess in those times. She had already refused to marry Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence (the eldest son of the Prince of Wales), even though her family wanted her to marry him. She had, however, already met a relative by marriage, the Tsesarevich of Russia. His uncle Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich was married to Alix's sister Elizabeth.

At first, Nicholas' father, Tsar Alexander III, told them they could not get married. He later changed his mind as his health began get bad. Alix did not like the need that she had to turn away from her Lutheran faith. The Russian Tsarina had to be an Orthodox. She later changed her mind and in time became a strong convert to the faith. She and Nicholas became engaged in April 1894. Alexander III died in November of that year, and Nicholas became Tsar of Russia at the age of twenty-six. The couple were married 14 November 1894.

The Tsar and Tsarina and all of their family, along with several family servants, were executed early in the morning during the night of July 17, 1918, by a detachment of Bolsheviks led by Yakov Yurovsky. Alexandra watched the murder of her husband and two servants before Peter Ermakov killed her with a gun shot to the left side of her head before she could finish making the sign of the cross. Ermakov, in a drunken haze, stabbed her dead body and that of her husband's, shattering both their rib cages.

After the execution of the Romanov family, Alexandra's body, along with Nicholas, their children and some servants who died with them, was stripped and the clothing burnt. At first, the bodies were thrown down an unused mine shaft, 12 miles north of Yekaterinburg. A short time later they were retrieved. Their faces and bodies were badly damaged so they could not be recognized. All of the bodies except for two of the children were later buried again. The bodies missing are believed to be those of a daughter- Maria or Anastasia- and Alexis. In the early 1990s, after the fall of the Soviet Union, what is believed to be the bodies of most of the family were found and identified.



Richard Gere

Richard Tiffany Gere (born August 31, 1949) is an American actor and activist. He grew up in Syracuse, New York. He has been acting for over 20 years. In favour with 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, Gere is a devout Tibetan Buddhist, which he converted to in 1978. He has three sisters and a brother. Gere was married to model Cindy Crawford from 1991 until 1995, when the two divorced.


Rikishi

A rikishi () is a professional sumo wrestler. The Japanese characters making up the name mean "strong man". The people who take part in sumo wrestling are very strong and big.

During their careers, the sumo wrestlers live in "stables" kept by a former wrestler. The former wrestler makes sure the new wrestlers who live there live a very strict life.

Thorax

The thorax is a part of an animal's body that is between the head and the abdomen. 

In mammals, the parts that make up the thorax are the sternum, the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs. It starts from the neck and stops at the diaphragm. 

In insects and crustaceans, it is the middle of the three main body sections. The walking legs are usually on the thorax.


Edda

Edda or the plural Eddas or Eddur, including "Poetic Edda" (or Older Edda) and "Prose Edda" (or Younger Edda), are two collections of stories about Viking deities. They were made in around 9th to 13th century by Icelandic Christian historians.
Although the Eddur are the most important written records remaining today about Norse mythology, they are not very reliable because Christians hated pagan religions, and they changed the original tales to make the Norse gods and goddesses look silly, lusty, and barbaric.

The term "Edda" most likely refers to Oddi, a place where both Saemund Sigfusson (a cleric who is rumoured author of Older Edda), and Snorri Sturluson (a Christian politician, author of Younger Edda) lived.


Njord

Njörðr is the god of the seas and the wind in Norse mythology. A member of the Vanir, he is the father of the twin gods Freyr and Freyja by an unnamed sister of his. He is married to the jötunness Skaði, daughter of Þjazi.

Skadi's father Þjazi caught Loki, and forced him to lure out the goddess Iðunn, keeper of the apples which grant the Æsir their phenomenal youth and longevity. As the gods began to age, they sought out the one responsible for taking Idunn; discovering it was Þjazi, they killed him and freed Iðunn. Angered at the offense, Skaði came to fight the gods, but they did not want to fight her. The Æsir instead offered Skaði compensation, allowing her to choose a husband among the gods, but only by looking at their feet. Skaði wished to marry Baldr, the most handsome of the gods, but the feet she picked belonged to Njörðr, whose feet were shining and clean. (Odin later took Þjazi's eyes and placed them as stars in the night sky). When Skaði moved to her new husband's home near the sea, she missed her mountain home. Trapped in a loveless marriage, she only spends half her time with her husband. When Skaði is away, Njörðr is sad, causing storms at the sea. 

Freyr

Freyr / Frey(Old Norse: “[the] Lord”) is the god of prosperity, fair weather, and fertility in Norse mythology, associated with sacral kingship, and virility. A member of the Vanir, he is the son of Njörd and twin brother of Freya. Husband of Gerðr, Freyr rides into battle on the massive shining boar Gullinbursti (Old Norse: “Golden maned” or “bristled”) and possesses the mighty ship Skíðblaðnir (Old Norse: “assembled from thin pieces of wood”), both forged by the drawrven brothers collectively known as the Sons of Ivaldi. Skíðblaðnir is said to always have a favorable breeze and can be folded together and carried in a pouch when not in use. Freyr once wielded the legendary sword Sümrbranðr (Old Norse: “Sword of summer”), which was said to be able to fight by itself.

When Freyr snuck in and sat on Odin's throne Hliðskjálf (on which one can see anything, anywhere across the Nine Worlds), instead of seeing Freyja (who was recently lost somewhere), Freyr came across Gerðr, a beautiful giantess native to Jötunheimr. He fell in love, and sent his servant Skírnir to woo her for him, but Gerðr refused to marry the god until Skirnir threatened to kill Gerðr with Freyr's sword and damage her lands. Gerðr finally agreed to marry Freyr, who then gave his sword to Skírnir as a reward.

Frey's realm is Álfheimr, the land of the elves. He is the patron god of Sweden. Statues of Odin, Thor, Frey, Frigg, and Freyja are often found in ancient temples.

Folkvang

Folkvanger, in Norse mythology, is the goddess Freyja's place. Its name means "Field of the Folk". The "folk" here refers to men sent to battle.

Sessrumnir

In Norse mythology, Sessrumnir (Old Norse: “seat-room” or “seat-roomer”) is an enormous hall belonging to the goddess Freyja. There she receives half of those killed in battle, as chosen by the Valkyries. It is said to be very large and has many seats. 

Spinach

Spinach is a green, leafy vegetable. It comes from southwestern and central Asia. Its flowers are small and yellow. Spinach is rich in vitamin K, vitamin A, vitamin C, and folate, making it healthy. Spinach, along with other green, leafy vegetables, is rich in iron.

Here are some perceptions about spinach that come from popular culture:

Arta Prefecture

Arta Prefecture is one of the 51 prefectures of Greece. It is in the west of Greece. Many of its people live in the west parts, near the Arachthos valey. Its capital is Arta.

Cardiomyopathy

The word cardiomyopathy means "heart muscle disease". Cardiomyopathies are a group of diseases in which the function of the myocardium (heart muscle) is impaired for any reason. People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of arrhythmia and/or sudden cardiac death.

There are four main types of cardiomyopathy:


Norm

One common understanding of norm is: something that is regarded as normal or typical.

But it may mean as well:

In mathematics:

Norm may also be:

Norms may refer to Norms Restaurants, a chain of restaurants in Southern California.


Fire salamander

The fire salamander ("Salamandra salamandra") is a species of salamander which can be found in Europe. It is black and has different kinds of yellow spots or stripes. Some salamanders are mostly black while others are mostly yellow. Shades of red and orange may sometimes appear. They either mix with the yellow, or replace it completely. This depends on the subspecies. Fire salamanders can have a very long life. In the German natural history museum of Alexander Koenig a salamander lived more than 50 years.

Fire salamanders live in forests in the hilly parts of southern and central Europe. They prefer deciduous forests. They like to hide in the fallen leaves or mossy tree trunks. They need clean small brooks (small rivers) in their habitat. This is for the development of the larvae. Both on land and in the water, Fire salamanders are hard to notice. 
They spend much of the time hidden beneath stones, wood or other objects.

Fire salamanders are active in the evening and the night, but on rainy days they may be active in daytime as well. Their diet consists of insects, spiders, earthworms and slugs. Sometimes, they will eat small vertebrates—for example, newts and young frogs. Small prey will be caught within the range of the vomerine teeth or by the posterior half of the tongue, which sticks to the prey.

Males and females look pretty similar except during the breeding season, when the most conspicuous difference is a swollen gland around the male's vent. This gland produces the spermatophore, which carries a sperm packet at its tip. The courtship happens on land. After the male becomes aware of a potential mate, he confronts her and blocks her path. The male deposits his spermatophore on the ground. Reproduction occurs by means of this spermatophore, which will be taken up by the female. Their gills develop lungs. Neotenic fire salamanders have not been observed.

Salamanders may actively defend themselves once they are grasped by a predator. Besides various antipredator postures, "S. salamandra" adults are able to make strong poisons. These usually act on the nerves of the predator. They are called neurotoxins. One such poison is the alkaloid Samandarin. When the salamander senses danger, it can secrete this through its skin. This alkaloid causes strong muscle convulsions and high-blood pressure combined with hyperventilation in all vertebrates. The poison glands of the Fire salamander are concentrated in certain areas of the body, especially around the head and the dorsal skin surface. The colored portions of the animals skin usually coincide with these glands. Most of these secretions might be effective against bacterial and fungal infections of the epidermis, but some secretions could also be dangerous to human life.

Fire salamanders are found in most of southern and central Europe. They are most commonly found at altitudes between 400 and 1000 m, only rarely below (in Northern Germany sporadically down to 25 m). However, in the Balkans or in Spain they are commonly found in higher altitudes as well.

"Salamandra salamandra" (Linnaeus, 1758)

Several subspecies of the Fire salamander are recognized. Most notable are the subspecies "fastuosa" and "bernadezi". These two are the only viviparous subspecies – the others are ovoviviparous.



Some former subspecies are today recognized as species due to genetic reasons.



Clamp

A clamp is a device used to hold things tightly together and to prevent movement and/or separation of objects.

Clamps are used in technical work, such as woodworking. There are also special types of clamps used in medicine.

Miamisburg, Ohio

Miamisburg is a city in Montgomery County, Ohio, United States.

Salamandridae

The family Salamandridae is a family of amphibians. It consists of true salamanders and newts. 

The species are spread all over the northern hemisphere - Europe, Asia, the northern tip of Africa and North America. 

As of 2007, there were 74 known species, in 20 genera.

Legalism

Legalism was one of the four main philosophies in Chinese history during the Warring States Period. It is a political philosophy which says that people are bad by nature and need to be controlled by the government. It was introduced by Qin Shi Huang.

One of the most important contributors to Legalism was Han Fei (). He said that a ruler must use following tools to govern a state:



Gold Coast Art Centre

The Gold Coast Art Centre is a place on the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. The Art Centre is home to many facilities including the Gold Coast City Art Gallery. The Art Centre holds events like weddings, Theatre, parties, corporate functions, seminars and conferences. The art centre is funded by the Gold Coast City Council

The Gold Coast Art Centre has many facilities, the facilities are listed below:



Reynoldsburg, Ohio

Reynoldsburg is a city in Fairfield, Franklin, and Licking counties in the U.S. state of Ohio.

Sekhmet

In Egyptian mythology, Sekhmet was the goddess of the sun, fire plagues, healing and war. She had the head of a lioness and the body of a woman. She was married to Ptah, the god of healing. They balanced each other. It was believed that her breath created the desert.
Sometimes known as sister to Bastet/Bast, a goddess who protected pregnant women and children.

Sekhmet had the head of a lioness and the body of a woman. She was usually depicted with a sun disc on top of her head. Many historians argue that she was from Sudan, since lions were plentiful there. When she was seated, she usually held the ankh of life, but when she was standing, she held a papyrus scepter, the symbol of Lower Egypt.

Sekhmet's breath represented a hot desert wind, and her body was the glare of the midday sun. She was created when Hathor came down to earth to take vengeance on man. Sekhmet became the destructive eye of the sun, and a sun goddess, and was named “Eye of Ra.” The ancient Egyptians knew that the sun could bring life, (Hathor), but also death. (Sekhmet). Her name translates as "The Powerful One." Sekhmet used her power destructively and brutally

The ancient Egyptians believed that Sekhmet took over sun and then the next morning she gave birth to the moon.

People were afraid of Sekhmet because along with her healing and protective powers, she was also destructive and retaliating. The ancient Egyptians believed that the "Seven Arrows of Sekhmet" would bring bad luck, so they used many charms and spells to protect themselves. There was a "Book of the Last Day of the Year" which they recited over a piece of cloth and wore around their neck at the end of the year. This was considered to be a dangerous time. On the first day of the New Year (Wep Ronpet), people would exchange amulets in the form of Sekhmet to keep the goddess happy.

Sekhmet had an unusual form of worship. She was worshipped evenly with her husband, Ptah, and her son, Nefertem. Her main cult center was in Memphis. Many priests recited complicated prayers, used to avert the rage of Sekhmet. A well-known prayer was called "The Last Day of the Year," and it was chanted while wearing a piece of cloth around one's head. The last day of the year was considered to be a dangerous period for the people, because Sekhmet usually attacked then.

Sekhmet was the Egyptian goddess of war and destruction. She was bloodthirsty, out of control, and the Egyptians thought she represented natural disasters. Her husband, Ptah, and her son, Nefertem were closely worshipped. Sekhmet was known as the lady of life, and the lady of terror. In one myth, Sekhmet terrorized the country of Egypt, crazy and thirsty for blood. Ra, the sun god, sent many swift-footed messengers to outsmart her. She saw through all, and then saw love through everything, and Sekhmet in her happiness, embraced it. She lay back and later turned into Hathor, the goddess of love.

Sekhmet’s main cult center was located in Memphis. When Amenemhat officially moved the capital of Egypt to Itjtawy, her cult center moved too. Her large similarity to Hathor brought the special erection of dual temples where citizens could worship Sekhmet and Hathor. Hundreds of jahovas were set up during the reign of Amenhotep III. At their bases, they emphasize Sekhmet's savagery and brutal myths.

Ancient Egypt. Oakes, Lorna, & Gahlin, Lucia. 268-269


Heterodoxy

Heterodoxy means a position that is not within the standards of orthodoxy or to put it precisely "any opinions or doctrines at variance with an official or orthodox position". As an adjective, "heterodox" is used to describe a subject as "characterized by departure from accepted beliefs or standards" ("status quo"). 

In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the term is used to refer to Christian churches not belonging to the Eastern Orthodox communion, but have no positions that are as different from those of Orthodox Christianity to thought to be as false as heresy.

Heterodoxy in the Roman Catholic Church in a similar way means views that differ from strictly orthodox views, but retain sufficient faithfulness to the original doctrine to avoid heresy. 

Many Roman Catholics profess some heterodox views, either on doctrinal or social issues. For example, the orthodox Catholic position on unbaptized infants is that their fate is uncertain, and "the Church can only entrust them to the mercy of God" (Catechism of the Catholic Church 1261). A heterodox Catholic might profess the belief that unbaptized infants are offered the option to accept or deny salvation by God at their judgment. The belief is not orthodox, as the Church does not profess a belief as to what happens to unbaptized infants; however, it is also not heresy, as the Church accepts that such a scenario "might" be possible. By contrast, a denial of the doctrine of "Original Sin" (thereby negating the necessity of baptism for children) or Papal Infallibility -- would be labeled heretical.

The term "heterodox" is occasionally used by some Christians to refer to themselves when they are in disagreement with orthodox understandings. The heterodox Christians remain in the tradition and attempt a constructive dialog around issues with which they disagree.



Isotherm

Isotherms are lines drawn around places with the same temperature range on isotherm maps. Each point on this line shows one temperature reading, or the average of many temperature readings. Isotherm maps also have scales that tell the signals or colors for the different temperatures. Isotherm lines are usually curvy and not straight lines.

Plate boundary

Plate boundaries refers particularly to places where continental plates touch or have touched in the past.

The major types of plate boundaries are:

All boundaries except the conservative ones are sites of major geological activity.


Hourglass dolphin

The hourglass dolphin ("Lagenorhynchus cruciger") (also known as the electra dolphin, little killer whale, or many-toothed blackfish) is a species of dolphin. It is small and wide compared to other dolphins. It only lives in the very cold waters of the Antarctic. It was not known to science until a drawing was made of it in 1820. Only six Hourglass dolphins have been examined by scientists. Boats do not usually go where they live. The average water temperature they live in is 0.1-0.3 degrees Celsius. 

The hourglass dolphin is black and white and for this reason was called the "sea skunk". On each side there is a white patch that looks a little like an hourglass shape. That is how it got its name. 

An adult is about 1.8 m in length and weighs 90-120 kg. There is only one other dolphin that is as small in its area.

Hourglass dolphins usually stay in groups of 5-10. Once a group of 60 was recorded. They like to ride the bow of boats. There are usually fin whales with them. It is thought they eat small fish, crustaceans, and squid. They have conical teeth probably used to crack the shells of crustaceans. 

The hourglass dolphin stays around the Antarctic. Some have been seen from the south of New Zealand and Chile. 

Berberis

Berberis or barberry is a genus of shrub, usually with spines and yellow flowers and red or blackish berries. It is used for medicines.

Magic: The Gathering

Magic: The Gathering is a trading card game. Players buy and trade cards, and build their own card decks. Decks must have at least 60 cards. Players can play in tournaments, and there are even professional "Magic" players. Most players of Magic: The Gathering simply call the game "Magic". The game is in a fantasy world involving magic. Richard Garfield made the game in 1993. It is said to be the first trading card game. The current Head Designer is Mark Rosewater, who also writes a weekly article about the game called "Making Magic."

2 or more people play the game. Players attack each other causing them to lose life points. Each player starts at 20 life points. There are many kinds of cards that can be used to reduce another player's life. Players can attack another player with a creature or deal direct damage with a spell. You win the game by reducing your opponent's life to 0, when your opponent runs out of cards to draw, or when a card says that you win the game.

Richard Garfield started to make the game at University of Pennsylvania. In 1993 he showed the game to the game company Wizards of the Coast. The company liked the game, and started to produce it.

The first cards were made in 1993. The cards are produced in groups of cards called "sets". The first sets were very successful, so more sets were made. About four sets are produced each year. Cards made before 2003 look different than newer cards, but are still compatible with the modern game in most cases.

Professional "Magic" began in 1996. Professionals play in tournaments around the world in the . A player can win as much as $40,000 in one tournament.

Magic: The Gathering Online (MTGO) was made in 2002. "Magic" players can now play their favorite game on the internet. A new MTGO was released in 2008. Also, a new online version called MTG Arena was released in 2019.

Generally more males play the game than females.

A game of "Magic" is played by two or more players. A player starts the game with twenty "life points". A player loses when he or she has zero or fewer life points. There are different ways to lose life points: players play "creature" cards and attack other players with them, or players play spells on other players. There are also other ways for players to lose: they have no cards in their deck, they have 10 "poison counters", or a card is played that says they lose.

Players begin the game by shuffling their decks (mixing up their cards) and then taking up seven cards. Each card has a different power. Players takes one new card at the start of each turn, but the first player does not take a card on their first turn. There are many steps in each turn. Certain cards can only be played in certain steps. A player can have no more than seven cards at the end of their turn. If they do, they must put cards into their "graveyard" (next to their deck) till they only have seven.

There are two basic kinds of cards: "spells" and "lands". Lands give its player "mana" (magical energy). Mana is used to "cast spells". A player may only play one land each turn. More powerful spells take more mana to play. There are also different kinds of spells. "Sorceries" and "instants" are played, and go directly to the "graveyard" after their effects take place. "Permanents" stay in play after they are played, and their effects stay as well. "Creatures" are a special kind of permanent that can attack and damage other players.

legendary creatures and planeswalkers are a totally different matter.

Most spells are one of five colors: white, blue, black, red, and green. To play a spell, at least one mana that is the same color as the spell is needed. Players normally get this mana from "basic lands": "plains" for white, "island" for blue, "swamp" for black, "mountain" for red, and "forest" for green. Each color has strengths and weaknesses, with white magic dealing in protection and defense, blue magic dealing with manipulation and thinking, black magic dealing in death and greed, red magic dealing in fire and emotion, and green magic dealing in strength and nature.

Each card has a picture that gives an idea of the power of the card. Card sets are usually made along with stories, and the pictures on cards generally show actions, events or characters in the stories.


Richard Garfield and Donato Giancola have also won personal awards for "Magic".

Giant salamander

The giant salamanders are a family of large aquatic amphibia, the Cryptobranchidae. 

They are the largest living amphibians. The Japanese giant salamander ("Andrias japonicus"), reaches up to , feeds on fish and crustaceans, and has been known to live for more than 50 years in captivity. The Chinese giant salamander ("Andrias davidianus") can reach a length of .

They live in brooks and ponds in the eastern United States (the hellbender), and in China and Japan.

Cryptobranchids are large, fat salamanders, with folds of skin along their flanks. These help increase the animal's surface area, allowing them to absorb more oxygen from the water. 

Their metamorphosis from the larval stage is incomplete, so that the adults retain gill slits (although they also have lungs), and lack eyelids. 

Chinese giant salamanders have lived as long as 75 years in captivity. It eats aquatic insects, fish, frogs and also crabs and shrimps.
They hunt mainly at night, and as they have poor eyesight, use sensory nodes on their head and body to detect tiny changes in water pressure, allowing them to find their prey.

During mating season, these salamanders will travel upstream. After the fertilization of the eggs, the male will guard them for at least six months. At this point, the offspring will live off their noticeable stored fat until they are ready to hunt. Once ready they will hunt as a group rather than individually.

Scientists at Asa Zoo in Japan have recently discovered that the male salamander will spawn with more than one female in his den. Sometimes the male "den master" will also allow a second male into the den, but the reason for this is unclear.



Manfred von Richthofen

Manfred Albrecht Freiherr von Richthofen (2 May 1892 - 21 April 1918) was a German fighter aircraft pilot in World War I. His nickname was the "Red Baron". He is considered the ace-of-aces of the war, being officially credited with 80 air combat victories. The "Red Baron" is one of the most famous aviators in history and the subject of numerous representations in music, film and other media. He already received numerous honors and award for his exploits.
Richthofen was born in Breslau, Germany.
In August 1914, Richthofen became a cavalry officer in World War I. In May 1915, he joined the air service and became an observer. He did that because the training course was shorter and would get him to fighting faster. In October, he began training as a pilot. In March 1916, he entered combat. He had his first victory in April. In 1917, he was in command of a squadron nicknamed the "flying circus". He painted his airplane red so his fellow Germans could see him. Richthofen’s sixteenth victory flying a plane made him the best pilot in Germany in 1917.

On April 21, 1918, Richthofen was fatally shot, whilst flying low above the Somme Valley, near Amiens while fighting in France. He was 25 years old. He was chasing an enemy plane when a bullet passed through his chest, fatally wounding him. He then made a crash landing, in a field on a hill near the Bray-Corbie road, just north of Vaux-sur-Somme. His Fokker Dr.I was seriously damaged by the landing. One witness, Gunner George Ridgway, said that Richthofen was already dead when he and other Australian soldiers reached the plane.

Canadian fighter pilot Arthur Roy Brown was officially credited with killing Richthofen. However, it is now generally agreed that the bullet that killed Richthofen was fired by a soldier on the ground. The enemy buried Richthofen's body with full military honors.

Fokker Dr.I

The Fokker Dr.I was a World War I fighter airplane. It was designed by Reinhold Platz and built by Fokker-Flugzeugwerke. 

The Dr.I was used only in small numbers and it had many problems. It is well known as the plane flown by the "Red Baron", Manfred von Richthofen.

Butch Hartman

Elmer Earl "Butch" Hartman IV (Born January 10, 1965, Highland Park, Michigan) is an American cartoonist and animator, creator of "The Fairly OddParents", "Danny Phantom", T.U.F.F. Puppy and Bunsen is a Beast. He also created the Christian children’s cartoon The Garden 

Hartman was born in Highland Park, Michigan to Elmer Earl Hartman III and Carol Davis. He got the nickname "Butch" as a kid and still calls himself Butch as an adult. Hartman spent his childhood in Roseville, Michigan and his teen years in New Baltimore, Michigan.

He graduated from Anchor Bay High School in New Baltimore in 1983. He then went to an art school called The California Institute of the Arts in Valencia, California.

While still attending the California Institute of the Arts, Hartman received the chance to intern as an in-between animator on the Don Bluth film, "An American Tail". Shortly after graduating from the California Institute of the Arts Hartman was hired as a character designer for the animated series "My Little Pony". Instead, they had him working on storyboards (which he had not done before) and as quickly as he was hired, he was fired.

Soon after Hartman found work with Ruby Slash, where he worked on "Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog", "Captain N: The Game Master" and "Gadget Boy & Heather".

He was also a video reference crew for the Disney movie Pocahontas. Later, he became a writer, television director and storyboard artist for several Hanna-Barbera shows, including Dexter's Laboratory, Cow and Chicken, and Johnny Bravo. 

After his contract with Hanna-Barbera finished up he went to work with former co-worker Fred Seibert on "Oh Yeah! Cartoons".

He's also a friend of Seth MacFarlane and worked on MacFarlane's animated short "Zoomates" and "Dan Danger" with Steve Marmel. MacFarlane also has a character on Family Guy named after Hartman named Dr. Hartman.

His biggest success came in 1997, when he created "The Fairly OddParents". (The idea came to him during the drive from Hanna-Barbera to Nickelodeon to pitch an idea to Fred Seibert.) It was originally a series of made for TV shorts on the anthology show, "Oh Yeah!Cartoons". In 2001, Nickelodeon picked it up as a full series. "The Fairly OddParents" became a huge hit, second only in the ratings to "SpongeBob SquarePants". Due to the success of "OddParents", Hartman was asked to create another cartoon for Nickelodeon, (Hartman says the President of Nickelodeon asked him if he had an idea, and before he could say the title he was given a contract.) Hartman created "Danny Phantom", in 2004. "The Fairly OddParents" ceased production in 2006, but it was announced on Hartman's website on February 2, 2007 that 20 more episodes will be produced. On July 11, 2007, The first new episode of Danny Phantom was aired on the Nicktoons Network. Danny Phantom ended production on August 24, 2007. The 7th Season of The Fairly OddParents aired on February 18, 2008, starting with the 1-hour special Fairly Odd Baby.

Hartman was asked to serve as executive producer and screenwriter of "Doogal", the Americanized dub of the British/French animated film "The Magic Roundabout". Butch Hartman revealed in a 2017 interview during the Weinstein scandal that the film was originally supposed to include a live-action frame story similar to "The Princess Bride" but it was scrapped due to budget costs and therefore replaced with Judi Dench's narration. Hartman even revealed that the original U.S. movie poster had his name and his production company Billionfold Inc. on it, until they were removed in later posters in copyright favor of both Pathé and Action Synthese's credits. He later expressed long-harbored remorse for his involvement where he revealed that most of his actual script was actually rewritten without his consent by producer Harvey Weinstein and his distribution and production company The Weinstein Company with a screenplay by Hoodwinked! co-director Cory Edwards; he also claimed that only 3% of his original script made it into the final film.

The film was then dubbed by The Weinstein Company, and was released on February 24, 2006. However, "Doogal" was poorly received by critics, and did poorly in the box-office, grossing only $7 million and getting 7% on Rotten Tomatoes.

Hartman is currently working on two new projects for Nickelodeon: one, a live-action series and the other, animated. It has also been stated that 20 more episodes of "The Fairly OddParents" are currently under production and if possible, he may decide to go ahead and work on a theatrical feature film "The Fairly OddParents Movie" as well. He also has a brand new cartoon series "T.U.F.F. Puppy" set to premiere on Nickelodeon in October, 2010. Hartman is the creator and it stars Jerry Trainor as the voice of the lead character, Dudley Puppy. The other shows that he created are "Bunsen is a Beast", HobbyKids Adventures, and The Garden.

Hartman currently lives in Bell Canyon, California, with his wife, Julieann, and daughters, Carly and Sophia.

On an edition of "Nick Magazine", Butch Hartman posted FOP looks of "Nicktoons" and other Nick Shows such as "Zoey 101", "SpongeBob SquarePants", "Rugrats", "Drake & Josh", and "".


Modes of limited transposition

Modes of limited transposition are a kind of musical scale. They were used by the French composer Olivier Messiaen.

Major scales have twelve different transpositions. This means that a major scale can start on any of the twelve notes (C, C#, D, D# etc.). There are also twelve different transpositions of the minor scale. Each transposition (“each scale”) is a different combination of notes (in this case: all of them).

A chromatic scale (one which uses every note, i.e. using all white and black notes of a keyboard) only has one transposition. This means that a chromatic scale can start on any note: each time it is the same combination of notes.

Messiaen was fascinated by scales that only had a few (usually two or three) transpositions. For example: the whole tone scale, which rises by a whole tone each time, has two transpositions. It can start, for example, on a C, so that the notes are C, D, E, F#, G#, A#, C. It can start on a C# so that the notes are C#, D#, F, G, A, B, C#. Transposing this up another semitone, starting on D, would give D, E, F#, G#, A#, C, D which is exactly the same combination of notes as the first one (the starting note is not important). The whole-tone scale was used by many composers including Glinka, Liszt and, especially, Debussy. Messiaen called it the "first mode" of transposition.

Messiaen’s "second mode", also called the “octatonic scale”, rises by alternating semitone, tone, semitone, tone etc. Messiaen used this scale a great deal, not just in his tunes but in the chords that he used (i.e. melodically and harmonically).

The "third mode" rises by a pattern of tone, semitone, semitone. It has four transpositions.

The other four modes each have a total of six transpositions.

Messiaen liked these modes because there is no note which sounds like the starting note. All the notes sound equal. He described them as having "the charm of impossibilities."

Olivier Messiaen

Olivier Messiaen (born Avignon, 10 December 1908; died Clichy, near Paris, 27 April 1992) was a French composer and organist. He is the most famous French composer of the mid-20th century and one of the most important and original composers of his time. He was a brilliant organist and played the organ at the church of La Trinité in Paris for over 60 years. He wrote music for orchestra, piano and organ, most of which is very difficult to play. He was also a great music teacher who taught several young students who became well-known composers e.g. Pierre Boulez, Yvonne Loriod (who became his second wife), Karlheinz Stockhausen, George Benjamin and Iannis Xenakis.

Messiaen started to compose when he was seven years old. When he was given the score of Debussy’s opera "Pelléas et Mélisande" he could imagine the music in his head and he knew he wanted to be a composer. He went to the Paris Conservatoire when he was 11. His teachers included some famous composers such as Paul Dukas, Maurice Emmanuel, Charles-Marie Widor and Marcel Dupré. He was appointed organist at the church of La Trinité in Paris in 1930, a post he held until his death.

When World War II broke out Messiaen was made a prisoner of war in 1940. While he was held in a Silesian camp he composed a work which was to become a very famous piece of chamber music: the "Quatour pour la fin du temps" ("Quartet for the end of time") for piano, violin, cello, and clarinet. He composed for these instruments because they were the instruments available. The piece was first performed by Messiaen and fellow prisoners to an audience of 5000 inmates and prison guards. He played a poorly maintained upright piano in freezing conditions and the trio played third-hand unkempt instruments. The work is about the life at the prison camp. Today the work is seen as one of 20th-century classical music's acknowledged masterpieces. The title's "end of time" alludes to the Apocalypse. It is also about the way that Messiaen, through rhythm and harmony, used time in a manner completely different from other people..

When he was free again in 1941 Messiaen became professor of harmony at the Paris Conservatoire. He composed 20 pieces for piano which are called "Vingt regards sur l’enfant Jésus" ("Twenty visions of the child Jesus"). He wrote a book about the way he composed, called "Technique de mon langage musical" ("The Technique of my musical language").

Messiaen soon became famous for his teaching and was invited to teach in other countries such as Germany, Hungary and the United States. He became interested in the rhythms of Greek and Hindu music.

In 1952, Messiaen was asked to provide a test piece for flautists at the Paris Conservatoire. He composed the piece e for flute and piano. He had long been fascianted by birdsong. Birds had also appeared in many of his earlier works, such as , and . This flute piece, however, was based entirely on the song of the blackbird.

He took this development to a new level with his 1953 orchestral work . Its material consists almost entirely of the birdsong one might hear between midnight and noon in the Jura. From this period onward, Messiaen incorporated birdsong into his compositions and composed several works for which birds provide both the title and subject matter (for example the collection of 13 piano pieces completed in 1958, and of 1971). Paul Griffiths observed that Messiaen was a more conscientious ornithologist than any previous composer, and a more musical observer of birdsong than any previous ornithologist.

His first wife died in 1959 and he remarried in 1961. He also became very interested in birdsong and spent a lot of time with his wife in the country with a tape recorder recording birdsong. He imitated the birdsong in his music, especially in piano pieces called "Oiseaux exotiques" ("Exotic birds") and the "Catalogue d’oiseaux" ("Catalogue of birds").

Messiaen wrote a lot of organ music which he performed himself. One very popular work is called "Transports de joie" ("Outburst of joy"). It is one of four pieces called "L'Ascension" (The Ascension). A much longer work, consisting of nine movements, is the "La Nativité du Seigneur" ("The Birth of our Lord"). The last movement of this piece is a toccata called "Dieu parmi nous" ("God among us"). It has become a favourite piece for organists to play at recitals or after Christmas carol services.

Messiaen wrote a long piece for orchestra called the " Turangalîla " Symphony. It was first performed in Boston in 1949 with Bernstein conducting. The French government commissioned a piece called "Et exspecto resurrectionem mortuorum" ("And we expect the rising of the dead") which was dedicated to people who had died in the two world wars. It was performed in the Sainte-Chapelle in Paris and then in Chartres Cathedral in 1965 in the presence of General Charles de Gaulle. In 1966 Messiaen became professor of composition at the Paris Conservatoire.

His visit to the Grand Canyon inspired him to write a ten-movement orchestral piece called "Des Canyons aux étoiles" ("From the canyons to the stars"), which was first performed in 1974 in New York.

Messiaen had been asked in 1971 to write an opera for the Paris Opéra. At first he did not want to start such a large work, but in 1975 he was persuaded to accept the commission and began work on his "Saint-François d'Assise". It took him several years to compose. It was performed in 1983. Messiaen said that he preferred to call it a “spectacle” instead of an “opera”.

Messiaen retired from teaching at the Conservatoire in 1978. In 1987 he was given the highest rank: the Grand-Croix" of the "Légion d'honneur".

Messiaen was in a lot of pain near the end of his life. He needed operations on his back. He still managed to finish a piece called "Éclairs sur l'au delà", which was first performed by the New York Philharmonic Orchestra six months after the composer's death. Messiaen had also been composing a concerto for four musicians he felt particularly grateful to: his wife Loriod, the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, the oboist Heinz Holliger and the flautist Catherine Cantin. This was nearly finished when Messiaen died, and Yvonne Loriod orchestrated the last movement with advice from George Benjamin.

Messiaen said of himself that he was a “composer and rhythmician”. He meant by this that rhythm was very important in his music. He taught himself all about Greek metres although he did not speak the Greek language. He liked rhythms which use odd numbers. Very often a bar of his music may have one extra semiquaver so that there might be 17 semiquavers in a bar. He studied Hindu rhythms and found ways of changing the rhythms during the music. He was very influenced by the rhythms in Stravinsky’s famous piece "The Rite of Spring".

Messiaen’s harmonies are very individual. He was fascinated by scales which can only be transposed in two or three different ways. He called these scales “modes of limited transposition”.

Messiaen’s music is full of different sounds. He wrote extremely well for large orchestras and for the organ, using different instruments or organ sounds in very original ways, e.g. in "Chronochromie" (1960) for large orchestra and "Méditations sur le mystère de la Sainte Trinité".(1969), a work which uses styles from his earlier period together with birdsong. Messiaen had synesthesia which meant that music often made him think of particular colours. In his orchestra Messiaen often used an instrument called the ondes Martenot which was a kind of electronic keyboard instrument. His sister-in-law Jeanne Loriod was a famous player of the ondes Martenot. Messiaen was also influenced by Indonesian gamelan music. For a short time he experimented with total serialism.

In some of his later works such as the "La Transfiguration de notre Seigneur Jésus-Christ", for choir of 100 voices, seven instrumental soloists and large orchestra, composed in the late 1960s, he used a simpler musical language which has helped it to become very popular.

Messiaen was a devout Roman Catholic all his life. His religion was a very important influence on his life and music.

The New Grove Dictionary of Music & Musicians; edited by Stanley Sadie 

Simplified Chinese characters

Simplified Chinese characters are one of the two commonly used forms of Chinese characters. As its name shows, it is made of characters that have in part been "simplified" from the original written form, which are called traditional Chinese characters.

When the People's Republic of China was formed in 1949, the Communist Party of China under Mao Zedong wanted to help the Chinese people read and write. Before 1949, most Chinese people could not read. The government hoped that by using fewer strokes to write characters, along with many other changes in the education system, the Chinese language would become more standardized like Japanese. The Empire of Japan had brought changes to the Japanese writing system during the earlier Meiji Restoration to make literacy and education more widely available to all Japanese citizens. Mao also hoped that simplifying Chinese characters would begin to shift Chinese people away from using the character system itself and that eventually Chinese-speakers would only use a phonetic alphabet to write.

The first set of simplified Chinese characters were first put to public use in 1956. Over time, more characters became "simplified", or existing ones changed, once in 1964 and again in 1978 and 1984. Many people did not like these changes because too many characters with different meanings were merged.

In hopes of promoting phonetic writing, the CCP was also working creating a standard romanization to accurately represent the pronunciation of Standard Chinese, pinyin. It was first taught in primary schools in 1958.

Roughly 2,000 Chinese characters have been simplified.

Today, simplified Chinese characters are used throughout Mainland China. It is also taught and used in some countries in Southeast Asia, including Singapore, and Malaysia.

Since the Republic of China fled to Taiwan and became separated from the rest of China, the government there did not choose to simplify its writing system, and so it still uses the older traditional Chinese characters. The territories of Hong Kong and Macau have also kept using traditional characters, even though they are politically part of the rest of China, which switched to simplified characters.

It could not be proven that Simplified Chinese characters were able to help people with reading and writing. As places using Traditional Chinese characters did not have literacy problems, in 2009 Pan Qing-Lin, a Chinese official, suggested to stop using Simplified Chinese characters. This did not happen.

In multi-racial societies, like Singapore, students have been learning a second language for many years. Because of this, Simplified Chinese characters are welcomed by students. People who learned the simplified set had little problem changing over to the traditional set. Even to this day, there are many reasons for the need to use traditional Chinese characters, such as working in places that did not adapt the simplified Chinese characters or reading older books that have not yet been translated to Simplified Chinese characters.

Most simplified characters have far fewer strokes. For example, the traditional character 馬 has 10 strokes, while its simplified version 马 only has 3 strokes. However, there are some simplified characters with more strokes than their traditional versions. For example, the traditional character 強 has 11 strokes, while the simplified version 强 has 12 strokes.

Below is a list of simplified characters next to their traditional versions.

There are several ways to simplify characters.

Traditional Chinese characters

Traditional Chinese characters are one of the two commonly used forms of Chinese characters. As its name shows, it is the "traditional" written form of the Chinese language that first came about during the Han Dynasty (shortly after the Qin Dynasty) in 206 BC. The name "traditional" is used to set them apart from simplified Chinese characters.
Court officials in the Han Dynasty believed that small seal script characters, which were standardized under Emperor Qin Shi Huangdi when he unified China, took too much time to write because Chinese characters at the time were written using curved lines instead of more angular lines. So Han officials decided to simplify writing Chinese characters by using multiple strokes, or lines, to form characters and radicals, rather than long curved lines. The changed small seal script characters are now commonly known as Hanzi (Simplified Chinese: 汉字 / Traditional Chinese: 漢字, meaning "Han characters"), because they were from the Han Dynasty. Hanzi became the standard writing system of Chinese and it even spread to other countries and languages. It was also used (with some differences) in the Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese languages.

Today, Japanese is the only non-Chinese language that still uses Chinese characters in daily life. They call them Kanji. After WWII, the Japanese simplified many of the characters. They called their simplified characters Shinjitai (which are not to be confused with simplified characters in Chinese), while traditional characters were called Kyujitai.

The older, "traditional" forms of Chinese characters remained more or less the same (although there were a few changes now and then) until the People's Republic of China (PRC) was formed in 1949. At that time, the Communist Party of China (CPC) started to create simplified Chinese characters, in which anywhere between 20-30% of all the Chinese characters used in daily life were replaced by ones that had fewer strokes and were easier to write. This move by the CPC, which took place in the 1950s throughout Mainland China, was made in order to make education more available to common people, especially farmers.

At the same time, the government of the Republic of China, which had fled to Taiwan, chose not to simplify its writing system. They continue to use traditional Chinese characters, believing that simplified characters were made to take away important details in traditional characters in order to limit thought. The Cantonese-speaking territories of Hong Kong and Macau have also kept using traditional characters, even though they are politically part of the PRC, which uses simplified characters. The Chinese taught as a second language in Southeast Asia uses simplified characters, and the government of Singapore and the Chinese community in Malaysia have adopted simplified characters as their standard script. Many immigrant communities of overseas Chinese also tend to use traditional rather than simplified characters.

Below is a list of simplified characters next to their traditional versions.

Windows Server 2008

Windows Server 2008 is an unsupported (by now, except for Azure customers) server operating system from Microsoft, the previous version of which was Windows Server 2003.

This operating system was codenamed named Windows Server "Longhorn", but on May 15, 2007, Bill Gates announced its official name on Windows Hardware Engineering Conference 2007.

This operating system has several new features compared to its previous version. Many of these new features are present in Windows Vista.

Windows Server 2008 removed support for processors without ACPI. It is the first version of Windows Server that includes Hyper-V and is also the final version of Windows Server that supports x86-based processors (also know as IA-32-based or 32-bit processors). Its successor, Windows Server 2008 R2 requires a 64-bit processor in any supported architecture (x86-64 for x86 and Itanium).



Windows Server 2003

Windows Server 2003 is a server operating system produced by Microsoft. Introduced on April 24, 2003 as the next version to Windows 2000 Server, it was considered by Microsoft to be the cornerstone of their Windows Server System line of business server products.

According to Microsoft, Windows Server 2003 is more scalable and delivers better performance than Windows 2000 Server.

Perry

Perry is an alcoholic beverage. It is made from fermented pears. It is made similar to the way cider is made from apples. Peary has been common for centuries in England. It is mostly found in the English counties of Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, and Worcestershire. Tt is also made in parts of South Wales and the Normandy and Anjou areas of France. 

In more recent years, perry has also been referred to as "pear cider". Some groups (such as CAMRA) do not accept this as a name for the drink. The National Association of Cider Makers says that the terms perry and pear cider are interchangeable. 

Plate tectonics

Plate tectonics is a theory of geology. It explains movement of the Earth's lithosphere. The lithosphere is the Earth's crust and the upper part of the mantle. The lithosphere is divided into plates, some of which are very large and can be entire continents.

Heat from the mantle is the source of energy driving plate tectonics. Exactly how this works is still a matter of debate. This theory includes the idea of continental drift.

The outermost part of the structure of the Earth is made up of two layers. The lithosphere, above, is solid. It includes the crust and the uppermost part of the mantle. 

Below the lithosphere is the asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is like a solid or a hot viscous liquid. It can flow like a liquid on long time scales. Large convection currents in the asthenosphere transfer heat to the surface, where plumes of less dense magma break apart the plates at the spreading centers. The deeper mantle below the asthenosphere is more rigid again. This is caused by extremely high pressure.

There are two types of tectonic plates: oceanic and continental.

An oceanic plate is a tectonic plate at the bottom of the oceans. It is primarily made of mafic rocks, rich in iron and magnesium. It is thinner than the continental crust (generally less than 10 kilometers thick) and denser. It is also younger than continental crust. When they collide, the oceanic plate moves underneath the continental plate because of its density. As a result, it melts in the mantle and reforms. The oldest oceanic rocks are less than 200 million years old.

Continental plate is the thick part of the earth's crust which forms the large land masses. Continental rock has lower density than oceanic rock. They are mostly made of felsic rocks. These have granite, with its abundant silica, aluminum, sodium and potassium. Continental plates are rarely destroyed. Their oldest rocks seem to be 4 billion years old. Oceanic plates cover about 71 percent of Earth’s surface, while continental plates cover 29 percent.

Ocean lithosphere varies in thickness. Because it is formed at mid-ocean ridges and spreads outward, it gets thicker as it moves further away from the mid-ocean ridge. Typically, the thickness varies from about thick at mid-ocean ridges to greater than at subduction zones.

Continental lithosphere is about thick. It varies between basins, mountain ranges, and the stable cratonic interiors of continents. The two types of crust differ in thickness, with continental crust being much thicker than oceanic: vs. .

The lithosphere consists of "tectonic plates". There are seven major and many minor plates. The lithospheric plates ride on the asthenosphere (aesthenosphere). The plate boundary is where two plates meet. When movement occurs, the plates may create mountains, earthquakes, volcanoes, mid-oceanic ridges and oceanic trenches, depending on which way the plates are moving.

Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along plate boundaries. The lateral movement of the plates varies from:

Depending on how they are defined, seven or eight major plates are usually listed:




Lithosphere

The lithosphere is the solid shell of the planet "Earth". This means the crust, plus the part of the upper mantle which behaves elastically over long time scales. 

Under the lithosphere is the asthenosphere, the weaker, hotter, and deeper part of the upper mantle. This part can flow. 

The lithosphere provides a conductive lid on top of the convecting mantle: it reduces heat transport through the Earth. A lithosphere (Ancient Greek: λίθος [lithos] for "rocky", and σφαίρα [sphaira] for "sphere") is the rigid,[1] outermost shell of a terrestrial-type planet or natural satellite which is defined by its rigid mechanical properties. On Earth, it is composed of the crust and that portion of the upper mantle which behaves elastically on time scales of thousands of years or greater. The outermost shell of a rocky planet, the crust, is defined on the basis of its chemistry and mineralogy.

There are two types of lithosphere:-

The lithosphere is divided into tectonic plates, which move gradually relative to one another. 

Oceanic lithosphere thickens as it ages and moves away from the mid-ocean ridge. This thickening occurs by conductive cooling, which converts hot asthenosphere into lithospheric mantle, and causes the oceanic lithosphere to become increasingly dense with age. Oceanic lithosphere is less dense than asthenosphere for a few tens of millions of years, but after this becomes increasingly dense than asthenosphere. 

When a continental plate comes together with an oceanic plate, at a subduction zones, the oceanic lithosphere always sinks beneath the continental. 

New oceanic lithosphere is constantly being produced at mid-ocean ridges and is recycled back to the mantle at subduction zones. As a result, oceanic lithosphere is much younger than continental lithosphere: the oldest oceanic lithosphere is about 200 million years old, while parts of the continental lithosphere are billions of years old. 

Another distinguishing characteristic of the lithosphere is its flow properties. Under the influence of the low-intensity, long-term stresses that drive tectonic motion, the lithosphere is like a rigid shell. It changes mainly by breaking ("brittle failure"). The asthenosphere (the layer of the mantle below the lithosphere) is heat-softened and adjusts by plastic changes ("deformation").

Oceanic lithosphere is made up of mostly basalt and gabbro. Continental lithosphere is made up of granite and gneiss.




New Jersey Devils

The New Jersey Devils are an ice hockey team that is part of the NHL. They play in the state of New Jersey. They have won the Stanley Cup, awarded to the best team in the NHL, 3 times.

"Statistics above are correct as of April 28, 2010".

These are the top-ten point-scorers in franchise history. Figures are updated after each completed NHL regular season. 
"Note: Pos = Position; GP = Games Played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; P/G = Points per game * = still active with the team

"Updated at completion of 2008–2009 season"




Nashville Predators

The Nashville Predators are a professional ice hockey team based in Nashville, Tennessee. They play in the National Hockey League (NHL). Their name is sometimes shortened to the "Preds." They play in Bridgestone Arena (formerly named "Nashville Arena", "Gaylord Entertainment Center", and "Sommet Center"). Their logo is a reference to a partial Smilodon skeleton that was found beneath downtown Nashville in 1971, during the construction of the First American National Bank. The franchise held a vote with the fans to choose a team name. The three candidates that were chosen were: The "Ice Tigers", "Fury", and "Attack". Another choice, "Predators", was added to the vote. Predators won the vote, and the new franchise was named the Nashville Predators.


Crookes

Crookes is an area of the City of Sheffield, England, about 2.5 kilometers (1.5 miles) west of the center of the city. It borders Broomhill to the south, Walkley and Crookesmoor to the east and open countryside around the River Rivelin to the north. The area is 
thought to have got its name from the Old Norse word "Krkor" which means a corner of land.

Dallas Stars

The Dallas Stars are a professional ice hockey team based in Dallas, Texas. They play in the National Hockey League (NHL). They have won 1 Stanley Cup, in 1999.

The team began in the autumn of 1967, as the Minnesota North Stars. After the 1992-1993 season, the team moved to Dallas. Texas is known as the "Lone Star State". The team changed its name from "North Stars" to just "Stars" when they moved.


Pharmaconomist

Pharmaconomist means expert in pharmaceuticals (expert in medicine).

A pharmaconomist is a Danish person who works in a pharmacy. Just like pharmacists, pharmaconomists have to be trained to work there, and have lots of knowledge about the drugs and treatments that they give out.




Broomhill

Broomhill which includes the areas of Sheffield of Broomhill, Crookesmoor, Endcliffe, and Tapton, is one of the 28 wards in City of Sheffield, in the country of England. It is in the western part of the city and covers an area of 2.7 km. The population of this ward in 2001 was 16,800 people in 5,700 houses.

Broomhill is a suburb of western Sheffield, England. Mostly created in the nineteenth century. The area is just west of the main building of the University of Sheffield, it is known for its large student population, and was identified in 2003 as the richest area apart from London for overall wealth.

Crookesmoor is north of the University of Sheffield's main building housing its law department and sports centre, east of Crookes and south of Walkley. A residential area, it has a large but decreasing student population and is home to Crookes Valley Park.

Endcliffe is southwest of Broomhill and is a rich residential area, housing Birkdale School (aprivate school) and three student buildings, which are part of the University of Sheffield.

Tapton is west of Crookes. It is home to Tapton School.

Owen Hargreaves

Owen Hargreaves (born 20 January 1981 in Calgary, Alberta) was a Canadian-born Welsh English football player. He played his club football for Bayern Munich, Manchester United and Manchester City. He is now retired, and works as a commentator.

His speciality was midfield defence, running interfenence in front of the back four.

Bayern Munich

Manchester United

Individual


Asthenosphere

The asthenosphere is part of earth's mantle. It is about 100 km to 350 km under the surface. It is the lower part of the upper mantle, and behaves as a hot viscous liquid.

It consists of hot, weak material that can be deformed like silly putty. That means it is capable of gradual flow. It is under the lithosphere.

Carlo Airoldi

Carlo Airoldi (21 September 1869–18 June 1929) was an Italian marathon runner, famous for walking to the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece.

Airoldi was born in Origgio, near Saronno. He competed in sporting contests in the Varese. Later, he competed at the national and international level. In 1892, he won the Lecco-Milano and the Milano-Torino. He became famous very quickly. He was one of the best marathon runners of his time. In September 1895, he won the Milano-Barcellona marathon. He won 2000 pesetas for his victory.

Airoldi wanted to participate in the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. But, he did not have many to get to Athens. He received some money from "La Bicicleta", a popular magazine of the time. Airoldi decided to run his way to Athens. He would need to cover seventy kilometres a day to arrive on time. The magazine covered the stages of his journey. They also provided him with food and water.

Airoldi first went from Milan to Split, with no problems. In the next stage, Airoldi planned to run along the Croatian coast through Kotor and Corfu. However, he fell and hurt his hand during the journey. He had to spend two days resting himself. He was told not to cross Albania on foot. He decided to take an Austrian boat to Patras. Then, he would go to Athens on foot. 

Airoldi finished his 28-day journey to Athens. However, he was not allowed to compete in the marathon. The head of the Olympic committee said that he was a professional athlete, and could not compete. Officials in Italy sent telegrams to the official, but Airoldi was still not allowed to compete. Italians felt that Airoldi was not allowed to compete because Greeks wanted to win the marathon. Airoldi did not accept the final decision. He then challenged the marathon-winner Spiridon Louis to a race. However, Louis never accepted Airoldi's offer.

Back in Italy, Airoldi tried to beat Spiridon Louis's record. He did not succeed. He continued to race in Lombardy and Switzerland. After he finished racing, he moved to South America.


Joseph Priestley

Joseph Priestley (13 March 1733 – 8 February 1804) was an English chemist, philosopher, clergyman, and teacher. He is known as the discoverer of oxygen. He was a Unitarian.

On 1 August 1774, Priestly identified oxygen in his laboratory at Bowood House in Wiltshire, England.

The Priestley Riots (or the Birmingham Riots of 1791) took place from 14 July to 17 July 1791 in Birmingham, England. 

The rioters' main targets were religious dissenters, led by Priestley. Both local and national issues stirred the rioters. But at the heart was the Dissenters' attempts to gain full civil rights, and their support of the French Revolution (though not its methods).

The riots started with an attack on the Royal Hotel, Birmingham. There a banquet was organised in sympathy with the French Revolution. Then, beginning with Priestley's church and home, the rioters attacked or burned four Dissenting chapels, twenty-seven houses, and several businesses. Many of them were drunk. They had found liquor while looting, or with which they were bribed. A small core could not be bribed, however, and stayed sober. The rioters burned not only the homes and chapels of the Dissenters, but also the homes of people they associated with Dissenters, such as members of the scientific Lunar Society.


Vince McMahon

Vincent Kennedy McMahon, Vince McMahon or Mr. McMahon (born August 24, 1945) is an American businessman, wrestling promoter, professional wrestler, and movie producer. He is the co-founder of modern WWE. McMahon has been both the ECW World Champion and the WWE Champion.

Forbes estimates his net worth to be around $2 billion.

McMahon started his wrestling career in 1971 as an announcer. He worked for the "World Wide Wrestling Federation" (WWWF) which later changed its name to "World Wrestling Federation" (WWF). The name was changed again to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). The company was originally owned by his father, Vince J. McMahon. McMahon bought the company from his father in 1984. McMahon took the business from a local promotion in the north eastern part of the United States and made it a global company.

McMahon played the role of an evil boss for many years.

In June 2022, McMahon stepped down as the chairman and CEO of WWE. This came after multiple reports of McMahon paying alleged hush-money agreements for many alleged affairs. He would return to the company as executive chairman in January 2023.

On January 26, 2024, McMahon would again step down from WWE and TKO after reports from the "The Wall Street Journal" about a lawsuit. It would allege that McMahon participated in sex trafficking and commited sexual assaults on a former employee.

McMahon married his wife, Linda McMahon, on August 26 1966 in New Bern, North Carolina. They have two children: Shane and Stephanie. In 2016, President-elect of the United States nominated McMahon's wife Linda as Administrator of the Small Business Administration.


Ogden Nash

Frederic Ogden Nash (August 19, 1902 – May 19, 1971) was an American poet. His poetry is thought by many people to be very funny. Nash was born in Rye, New York on August 19, 1902. In 1932, he joined the staff of "The New Yorker". He died of Crohn's disease on May 19, 1971 in Baltimore, Maryland.

1986 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1986 Atlantic hurricane season officially started on June 1, 1983, and ended on November 30. The season had a total of 6 named storms and 4 hurricanes.

Tropical Depression One formed on June 5 north of the Bahamas. It strengthened into Tropical Storm Andrew the next day. Andrew traveled along the East Coast of the United States, creating giant waves and high surf along the shore but with minor damages. Andrew dissipated south of Cape Cod. One person drowned off the North Carolina coast in high surf, but no major damages was reported.

Tropical Depression Two formed south of the Louisiana coast on June 23 and quickly strengthened into a hurricane. Bonnie made landfall on the upper Texas coast near High Island. Streets were flooded throughout southeast Texas, mobile homes were destroyed, and three people were killed. Bonnie caused $2 million (1986 USD) in damage.

A tropical depression formed off the coast of the Florida and moved inland. The depression then travelled across Florida and exited the coast near Savannah, Georgia, and strengthened into Tropical Storm Charley. Charley continued moving up the coastline, and the storm strengthened into a hurricane before moving across the Outer Banks and Delmarva Peninsula. Charley then moved out into the sea, later became extratropical in the north Atlantic Ocean, and later brought bad weather across the British Isles on August 25 where it caused major damages.

On September 1, a tropical wave moved off the coast of Africa and moved west. The disturbance was below the 10 degree latitude as it developed into a tropical depression on September 7 and then strengthened into a tropical storm later that day. Danielle peaked as a 60 mph storm on September 8, while a Reconnaissance Aircraft reported gusts of up to hurricane force. After passing through the Lesser Antilles, Danielle came across vertical wind shear, and on September 10, it dissipated in the central Caribbean Sea. The remnants of Danielle continued to move west and eventually redeveloped in the Pacific Ocean as Tropical Storm Lester.

The strongest storm of the season began as a tropical wave off Africa on September 4. After moving across the tropical Atlantic Ocean it strengthened as Tropical Depression Five on September 10 while about 1240 miles (2000 km) east of Puerto Rico. The depression quickly strengthened and reached hurricane strength on September 11; Earl reached its strongest point on September 12, as a Category 2 hurricane as it travelled in a half circle.

The hurricane weakened to a Category 1 on September 16 and bounced back the way it came. Earl then turned north and became extratropical southeast of Newfoundland on September 19. At its strongest point, Earl had sustained winds of 105 mph (170 km/h) and a minimum central pressure of 979 mbar.

Tropical Depression Six formed on November 18 and quickly strengthened into a tropical storm. The storm curved northeast and strengthened further, reaching hurricane strength on November 20. However, a high pressure system to the north caused the storm to fall apart. Frances was later destroyed by an extratropical low on November 21.
These were the names set aside to be used in 1986 Atlantic hurricane. In the Atlantic, the names are used again every six years, so many of these names were used in 1980 and again in 1992. The names that did not get used are marked with . 

No names were retired from the 1986 Atlantic hurricane season.


Abidjan

Abidjan is the largest city and former capital of Ivory Coast. It is the commercial and banking center of Ivory Coast as well as the de facto capital. Yamoussoukro is the official capital. The city is in Ébrié Lagoon. It is built on many peninsulas and islands which are connected by bridges. There are an estimated 4 to 5 million people living in the metropolitan area.

The city grew after the construction of a new wharf in 1931. It was made the capital of the French colony in 1933. In 1983, Yamoussoukro was made the capital of the country, but most government offices and foreign embassies are still in Abidjan.


Accra

Accra is the capital city of Ghana. It has a population of about 1,970,400 (2005). The city is Ghana's largest city. It is also the administrative, communications, and economic center of the country. The main economic activities in Accra are financial and government services, communications, construction, transportation and agriculture (mostly fishing). Most of Ghana's ability to make things is in the capital area.

Accra was founded by the Ga people in the late 1600s. The word Accra comes from the word "Nkran" meaning ants. This is because of the many anthills seen in the countryside around Accra. During part of its history, Accra was a very important place for trade with the Portuguese. The Portuguese built a fort in the town. Many other countries also built forts at Accra during the 17th century. These countries included Sweden, the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom and Denmark.

The location that is Accra today grew into a large town around the original Ga town. As the city grew, the British, Danish and Dutch forts and the small communities that formed around the forts were made added to the city.

In 1877, at the end of the second Anglo-Asante War, Accra replaced Cape Coast as the capital of the British Gold Coast colony. After a railroad was built between Accra and the inland locations of mines and farms, Accra became the economic center of Ghana. Large areas of the city were destroyed by earthquakes in 1862 and 1939, but the city rebuilt around a seaport and later a brewery. Each time it rebuilt, the city was made larger.

The Accra Riots in 1948 started people in Ghana fighting for independence. This led to the Ghana's independence from the United Kingdom and it becoming a country in 1957.

Today, Accra is one of the richest and most modern cities in the African continent. It has a high quality of living by African standards.


César Franck

César Franck (born Liège, 10 December, 1822; died Paris, November 8, 1890), was a composer, organist and music teacher of Belgian and German origin who lived in France. He was one of the great musicians of his time. He was organist at the church of Sainte Clotilde in Paris for more than 30 years, and he taught many talented young musicians. Most of the music for which he is famous was composed when he was already quite old.

César Franck was born in Liège, a town which is now in Belgium. His father came from near the German-Belgian border and his mother was German. Because his father wanted him to be a concert pianist, he was sent to study at the conservatoire in Liege before going to the Paris Conservatoire in 1837. In 1842 his father made him come back to Liège so that he could practise for his career as a virtuoso pianist. He went back to Paris in 1844 and stayed there for the rest of his life. He told his father he did not want to be a concert pianist. This made his father very angry.

During his first years in Paris, Franck made his living by teaching and playing the organ. In 1848 he married. His parents came to the wedding although they were still angry with him for not wanting to be a pianist.

In 1858 he became organist at a new church called Saint Clotilde Basilica. He stayed there for the rest of his life. He decided to improve his organ playing, in particular in the use of pedals and in improvisation. At that time changes were being made in France to the pipe organ. Aristide Cavaillé-Coll was a very famous organ builder. He built an organ for Saint Clotilde Basilica and Franck gave the first recital on the new instrument in December 1859. Franck became famous for the way he improvised on the organ after the services. However, for many years he did not compose much.

Franck was becoming known as a teacher of organ and composition. His group of pupils became known as the "bande à Franck" (the "Franck band"). They included Henri Duparc, who introduced him to Alexis de Castillon. Franck became organ professor at the Paris Conservatoire. The students he taught included Vincent d'Indy, Ernest Chausson, and Louis Vierne. His organ works, especially the "Grande Pièce Symphonique", were some of the best organ pieces to come from France (or anywhere else) in over a century. They helped to prepare for the French symphonic organ style, which was to include many famous composers from the late 19th century onwards: people such as Vierne, Charles-Marie Widor and Marcel Dupré.

In 1872 he wrote an oratorio "Rédemption". It was not a success when it was first performed, but this was mainly due to the instrumental parts which had been badly copied, and by the famous conductor Edouard Colonne who conducted it very badly. The work became popular years later after Franck had died.

Franck was now starting to compose the works which made him really famous. He wrote a very large oratorio called "Les Béatitudes". Later he wrote a "Piano Quintet" and the symphonic poems "Le chasseur maudit" and "Les Djinns". His piano music included "Prélude, choral et fugue" and the "Variations symphoniques". In 1885 he was awarded the cross of the Legion d’honneur. A year later he became president of the Société Nationale de Musique. He wrote a "Violin Sonata" (1886) and a "Symphony" (1888), which are probably his two most famous compositions now.

In 1890, Franck was knocked down by a horse tram while crossing the road. He died shortly afterwards, although he still managed to compose his "Trois chorals" for organ just before he died.

Many of Franck's works use "cyclic form", a way of making a long work with several movements sound like one piece by making the main theme or themes come back in later movements. He wrote in a Romantic style which was partly influenced by the music of Wagner and Liszt. Franck had big hands and when he wrote for the piano he often made the pianist play chords with very wide stretches.

He remains famous for just a small number of compositions written in his last years. One of his best known shorter pieces is the motet "Panis Angelicus", which was originally written for tenor solo, but is more often heard sung by a soprano or treble.


Addis Ababa

Addis Ababa (spelled Addis Abeba by the Ethiopian Mapping Institute, also called Finfinne) is the capital city of Ethiopia. It is also the political capital of the African Union and the Oromia region of Ethiopia. 

Addis Ababa is both a city and a state. The city has people living in it from as many as 40 different countries speaking 80 different languages. There are many different communities in the city including Christian, Muslim, and Jewish communities. Addis Ababa is about 2,500 m above sea level. It has about five million people.

The site was chosen by Empress Taytu Betul. The city was founded in 1886 by her husband, Emperor Menelik II. The city is at the foot of Mount Entoto. In 1935 the city (renamed Addis Abeba) was conquered by the Italians and was made the capital of their empire in eastern Africa until 1941. Italians made huge improvements and modern projects to the city.

The city has grown since World War II and is now a huge metropolis that has nearly 09.98 million people living there as of 2019.

Addis Ababa University is in the city. Addis Ababa University was formerly known as Haile Selassie I University. It was named after the former Emperor of Ethiopia, who gave his palace to be used the main campus of the university in 1961.



Home directory

In computing, a home directory is a special directory (or location in the File system, Apple calls directories "folders"). Very often, there is one such home directory per user. Some users, which were created by the system and usually do not log in, do not have such a home directory.

A home directory is used to store personal files of the respective user, including written documents and settings for programs.

On Unix and Linux-like operating systems, the directory is usually called like the username. It is usually in the "/home" hierarchy. A user "fred" would therefore his home directory in "/home/fred".

It can be written as "~".

Since Windows 95 there is a directory called "My Documents". It was introduced together with "My Computer". It helps the users locate their files. Since Windows 2000 it is in the user's profile directory "Documents and Settings\username". So a user "fred" will find his files in "Documents and Settings\fred\My Documents". In Windows Vista the directory has lost the "My", and is simply called "Documents". Other directories, which are similar, may exist. They are called "My Music", "My pictures" and "My videos". Since Windows 7 files of a user can be found at "\Users\(username)\".

In Mac OS X, the home directory is in "/Users".

Nowruz

Nowruz (, meaning "[The] New Day", ; ) is the Iranian term for the New Year celebrated by the Iranian peoples. It is one of the most ancient celebrations which has survived throughout history and is considered to be a day in which new good things start. It is rooted in the ancient Iranian religion of Zoroastrianism.

Nowruz is the day of the spring equinox, when the amount of light and dark is the same during the day. It is the beginning of the year in the Persian calendar. It is usually celebrated on March 21.On September 30, 2009, UNESCO registered Nowruz as an intangible cultural heritage under the official name "International Nowruz Day". The UN General Assembly then listed Nowruz, which has roots in Iran, on its calendar. A document approved by the United Nations General Assembly on February 23, 2010 explains that Nowruz on March 21 originated in Iran more than 3,000 years ago and is celebrated by more than 300 million people today. There is. UN member states celebrated Knowles in 1391 (2012) for the first time in Iran-sponsored UN and UNESCO public places, and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also sent a message to the celebration .

Nowruz has been celebrated by people from different ethnic communities and religious backgrounds for thousands of years. It started in Persia in one of the capitals of the Achaemenid Empire in Persis (Fars). It has been registered by UNESCO as The "International Day of Nowruz" a cultural and spiritual heritage of mankind on October 29, 2009. UN General Assembly also registered Nowruz as an Iranian heritage in its calendar. UN General Assembly described it as a festival celebrated for more than 3,000 years. Nowadays more than 300 million people celebrate it all over the world .UN document explained on March 23rd 2010.
Iran hosted celebrating Nowruz in the United Nations and UNESCO for the first time in 2012. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also issued a message on the occasion.
According to the book Documents on the Persian Gulf's name, Nowruz was originated in ancient Persia. This celebration is attributed to the mythical king Jamshid. Iranians celebrated Nowruz continuously at least since 500 BC .Historically the ethnics residing in geographical civilization of PERSIA have celebrated changing of the seasons or solar rotations, the equinoxes (March ( 21st) and September (about 23rd) and the solstices in June (20th or 21st) and December (21st or 22nd). they in fact were honoring and welcoming sun developments and return of spirit of the dead in this special days.
there are indications that Iranians may have observed the beginning of both autumn and spring, respectively related to the harvest and the sowing of seeds, for the celebration of the New Year.
the March equinox or Nowruz is formally the beginning of the new year in Iran and Afghanistan and Nowruz festival start in last Wednesday of the end of year and continues till 13 first month of new year. It is a national holiday now in all Iranian neighboring countries including, Azerbaijan, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Syria, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan , Georgia, India,Uzbekistan.

Earth's mantle

The Earth's mantle has two layers. There is a rigid upper layer and a softer layer. It is between the Earth's crust and the Earth's outer core.

Past episodes of melting and volcanism at the outer levels of the mantle have produced a very thin crust of crystallized melt products near the surface, where we live. The gases evolved during the melting of Earth's mantle have a large effect on the composition and size of Earth's atmosphere. 

The top of the mantle is the Moho at the base of the crust. The base of the crust varies from about 10 to 70 kilometers deep. Oceanic crust is generally less than 10 kilometers thick. "Standard" continental crust is around 35 kilometers thick, and the large crustal root under the Tibetan Plateau is about 70 kilometers thick.

A thin crust, the lower part of the lithosphere, surrounds the mantle and is about 5 to 75 km thick. There are two main zones in the upper mantle. The uppermost mantle plus overlying crust are relatively rigid and form the lithosphere, an irregular layer with a maximum thickness of perhaps 200 km, of which the uppermost mantle is 120 to 50 km thick.

Below the lithosphere the upper mantle becomes notably more plastic. It is called the asthenosphere, and is composed of flowing rock in the state of plasticity, about 200 km thick.

The lower mantle is much thicker than the upper mantle. It is made of magma, under great pressure, and so is thicker (higher viscosity) and flows less easily. The lower mantles temperature has a max of about 4,000 °C (7,000 °F). 

The chemical composition of the mantle is heavily biased towards three elements: oxygen 44.8% by weight; magnesium 22.8%; silicon 21.5%. Compounds are oxides: silica SiO 46%; magnesium oxide MgO 37.8%.

In 2007 a team of scientists on board the RRS James Cook went to an area of the Atlantic seafloor where the mantle has no crust covering. The anomaly is mid-way between the Cape Verde Islands and the Caribbean in the Atlantic Ocean, at or near the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. It is about three kilometres under the ocean surface and covers thousands of square kilometres.

Other such 'Oceanic Core Complexes' (OCCs) were found later. Many have active hydrothermal vents.


Robert Burns

Robert Burns (25 January 1759 1796) was a famous poet born in Alloway, Ayrshire, Scotland. Some of his most famous poems include "To A Mouse", "Auld Lang Syne", and "Tam o Shanter". Burns is seen as the national poet of Scotland. Much of his work is written in broad Scots, a sister language to English. His poem and song "A Man's A Man For A' That" was sung at the opening of the Scottish Parliament in 1999. "To A Louse, On Seeing One on a Lady's Bonnet at Church" is a 1786 Scots poem by Robert Burns.

Burns died at 37, and is buried in the graveyard of St Michael's Church, Dumfries, Scotland.


Book club

A book club is a club where people regularly meet to discuss a book that they have read and talk about their opinions, likes, dislikes of the characters and plot. Book clubs meet in private homes, libraries, bookstores, pubs, cafes or restaurants over meals, etc.

Video Relay Service

VRS or Video Relay Service is a service by which deaf people can use sign language on phone calls. In some countries it has largely replaced the use of TTY for this purpose.

VRS uses a video camera and a high-speed Internet connection, to let people call friends, family, and business associates. A deaf or hard of hearing person can use a remote control and call an interpreter. When interpreter comes on their screen, the caller can call any hearing person and have a phone conversation through the interpreter.

VRS was invented in the 1990s in Sweden. In the early 21st century it became available in the United States. A person in the United States, can make calls to, or receive calls from, anybody in the world via VRS.


Florida Panthers

The Florida Panthers are an ice hockey team that plays in the NHL. They play in Sunrise, Florida at FLA Live Arena. They were named for the Florida panther, a type of cougar that is considered an endangered species.

The Panthers have made it to the Stanley Cup Finals twice in 1996 and 2023 when they lost to the Colorado Avalanche in four games (1996) and the Vegas Golden Knights in five games (2023).


Carolina Hurricanes

The Carolina Hurricanes are an ice hockey team that plays in the NHL. The team's home arena is PNC Arena, in Raleigh, North Carolina. They won the Stanley Cup during the 2005-2006 season by beating the Edmonton Oilers. They play in Raleigh, North Carolina, but they moved in 1999 from Hartford, Connecticut, where they were known as the Hartford Whalers. They play in the Metropolitan Division of the NHL.

The name "Hurricanes" was chosen because the eastern part of North Carolina is often hit by hurricanes during tropical storm season.


Dakar

Dakar is the capital city of Senegal. It is on the country's Atlantic coast on the western edge of Africa. The city is a trade seaport for items leaving Africa. Dakar has a population of 1,030,594 people. The metropolitan area has about 2.45 million people living in it.

The National Assembly of Senegal and Senegal Presidential Palace are in Dakar.

The area that is now Dakar was first settled around the 15th century. In 1444, Portuguese created a colony there. By 1536, the colony was being used to as part of the slave trade. Between 1588 and 1677, the area was fought over by many countries. During this time it was under the control of the Portuguese, Dutch, English, and finally the French.

In 1857, the French built a military base here. This base was called Dakar. It was made the capital of French West Africa in 1902. Dakar was one of the major cities of the French Empire during this time. It was very important in terms of trade, military, and communications to the empire until World War II.

The city was the capital of the Mali Federation from 1959 to 1960. It then became the capital of Senegal.



IRCAM

IRCAM stands for "Institut de Recherche et Coordination Acoustique/Musique" ("Institute for Research and Coordination of Acoustic Music"). It is an institute in Paris for composing electronic music. IRCAM is housed underneath the Pompidou Centre which is a very large building devoted to the arts, and named after the former French president Georges Pompidou. 

In 1970 Georges Pompidou asked the composer Pierre Boulez to start an institution for music research. Boulez was in put in charge of the institute. It was opened in 1977. Composers were able to work there, composing music, without having to finish pieces by any particular date. They were given plenty of time to experiment. Many modern composers such as Harrison Birtwistle, Jonathan Harvey and George Benjamin have worked there or were influenced by the music that was being composed there. Today musicians working in IRCAM continue to provide many interesting new ideas in electronic music.


Yaoundé

Yaoundé is the capital city of the Republic of Cameroon. It is the second largest city in the country after Douala.

Yaoundé was founded in 1888 by German traders. It was created to be used as a base for the ivory trade and an agricultural research station. The city was under the control of Belgian troops during World War I. After the war, it became the capital of French Cameroons. It has remained the capital of the Republic of Cameroon until the present day.

Asmara

Asmara is the capital city of Eritrea. It is the largest settlement in the country. Asmara has a population of about 579,000 people. Textiles and clothing, meat, beer, shoes, and ceramics are the major industrial products of the city.

Asmara grew from four villages founded in the twelfth century. It is said that there were four clans living in the Asmara area. The women of these tribes told them men to join together to fight bandits who had been attacking the area. After they defeated the bandits, a new name was given to the place, "Arbaete Asmara". This name, in the Tigrinya language, meant "the four females united". "Arbaete" was later dropped and the name was made Asmara.

In 1889, Asmara became an Italian colony. It was made the capital of the country in 1897 and was called "Asmara italiana". The city was damaged during earthquakes in 1913 and 1915. During the 1930s, the Italians made many chances to how Asmara looked. Many new buildings were created during this time and the city was mainly populated by Italian colonists (in 1940 there were 57000 Italian residents on a total population of 98000).

These buildings were built in the same style as Italian buildings. This gave Asmara the look of an Italian city. Today many of the buildings and stores in Asmara still have Italian names.

During World War II, after the defeat of Italy in Africa, Asmara was under British rule. In 1952, the United Nations placed the country and Asmara under Ethiopian control. In the 1960s, the Eritrean people started fighting for independence from Ethiopia.

This bloody war lasted until 1991. Asmara was given back to the Eritrean people on May 24, 1991.

In July 2017 Asmara has been declared "World Heritage Site" by the UNESCO.



Bamako

Bamako is the capital and largest city of Mali. It is on the Niger River, near the rapids that divide the Upper and Middle Niger Valleys, in the southwestern part of the country.

Lomé

Lomé is the capital city of Togo. Lomé is the administrative and industrial center of the country. The city is also the main port of Togo. The city exports coffee, cocoa, copra, and palm kernels. The population of the city was estimated as around 700,000 people in 1998. It is estimated that more than 1 million people live in Lomé area at that time.

Lomé is on the Gulf of Guinea. It is in the south west of Togo, on the border between Togo and Ghana. Things to see in the city include Lomé Grand Market, the Togo National Museum in the Palais de Congrés, a fetish (voodoo) market, Lomé Cathedral, beaches and the former wharf.

The city was founded in the eighteenth century by the Ewe people. In 1882, the village, known then as Bey Beach, became a major trading center for the British.

Bey Beach became the capital of Togo when the German rulers moved the capital from Aneho in 1897. The city then grew quickly until it was taken by the French Army in 1914 during World War I.

2002 Atlantic hurricane season

The 2002 Atlantic hurricane season was a buzzword used to reference all of the hurricanes happening in 2012. The season officially began on June 1 and ended on November 30. In total, 12 named storms and 4 other hurricanes formed.

Because of an El Nino event happening in the Pacific Ocean, the season ended early on October 16 when the last storm died out. Although most of the season remained quiet, it was very active during the month of September and broke the record of the most number of storms forming in September. The most notable hurricanes were Hurricane Lili which was the strongest and deadliest storm of the season, and Hurricane Isidore which killed a total of 7 people in Louisiana.

Tropical Depression One formed offshore North Carolina. One became Tropical Storm Arthur. Tropical Storm Arthur crossed part of the Atlantic moving northeast. Arthur curved north after moving northeast. Arthur started dying but Arthur made landfall in Newfoundland before completely dying on July 16.
Bertha formed very quickly into a tropical storm from a tropical depression on August 4. Only two hours after that Bertha made landfall in Boothville, Louisiana. Over Louisiana it weakened to a tropical depression. Bertha went back into the Gulf of Mexico but did not become a tropical storm again. On September 9 Bertha made landfall again near Kingsville, Texas, Bertha died only ten hours later. Bertha left only $200,000 in damage and killed only 1 person.
Tropical Storm Cristobal was a cyclone that formed in August 2002. It stayed away from land for most of its life. However, when it died out, what was left of the storm caused rain and wind on Bermuda. It also caused stormy seas that caused three people to drown near Long Island. No severe damage happened.

Tropical Storm Dolly formed on August 29 as Tropical Depression Four. Four became a Tropical Storm Dolly before dying on September 4. Tropical Storm Dolly did not affect land during her lifetime.

Edouard formed on September 1 as Tropical Depression Five. Five because a tropical storm. Edouard made a loop and weakened. Edouard made landfall in Ormond Beach, Florida on September 5 as a very weak tropical storm. Edouard died after crossing Florida. No one knows the damage and no one was killed by Edouard.
On September 5 Tropical Depression Six formed. It moved slowly and became Tropical Storm Fay the next day. On September 7 Fay made landfall near Port O'Connor, Texas. Fay moved over Texas into Mexico and did not completely die until September 11.

Tropical Depression Seven formed from a tropical wave on September 7. It had a maximum wind speed of 35 mph and a minimum pressure of 1013 mbar. It moved usually west, and was later torn apart by wind shear on September 8. It did not have an effect on land.
On September 8 Subtropical Depression Eight formed. Eight became a subtropical storm and was named Gustav. After that Gustav became a tropical storm. Tropical Storm Gustav moved very close to Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. Gustav moved away and became a hurricane on September 11. Gustav then moved very fast and made landfall over Nova Scotia and Newfoundland before Gustav died on September 12. Since Gustav became a hurricane on September 11 it was the latest day ever for a tropical storm to become a hurricane in the Atlantic. Gustav killed 4 people and left $340,000 in damage.
Tropical Storm Hanna formed in the as Tropical Depression Nine. Nine quickly became Tropical Storm Hanna before making landfall near the border of Mississippi and Alabama on September 14. Hanna left $20 million in damage and killed 3 people.
Isidore started as Tropical Depression Ten on September 14. Ten crossed Venezuela not long after forming. Because it stay over and near Venezuela Ten fell apart and was not a tropical depression after that. The remains became Tropical Depression Ten again on September 17. The next day Ten became Tropical Storm Isidore. Isidore later on became a hurricane and moved slowly over Cuba and the Yucatán Peninsula. The storm made landfall in Louisiana as a tropical storm on September 26. Isidore fell apart again and was last seen on September 27 before it went into a frontal zone in Pennsylvania. Isidore left $1.3 billion in damage and 22 deaths. No one knows the damage in Cuba.
Tropical Storm Josephine was a weak tropical storm that formed on September 17 as Tropical Depression Eleven. It became a tropical storm later on before it died only two days later, which was September 19. Josephine did not cause damage or kill anyone.
Hurricane Kyle lasted more than 3 weeks. Hurricane Kyle started as a Subtropical Depression on September 20. It became a subtropical storm, then a tropical storm, and after that, a hurricane. It weakened back to a tropical storm and down to a tropical depression. It became a tropical storm again and made a landfall in McClellanville, South Carolina. Kyle made its second and last landfall in Long Beach, North Carolina on the same day. Kyle left only $5 million in damage and killed only 1 person.
Hurricane Lili formed on September 21 as Tropical Depression Thirteen. It became a tropical storm on September 23, then it became a tropical wave on September and was not a tropical storm anymore. It reformed and became a tropical depression on September 28. Lili became a tropical storm again and a hurricane on September 30. Lili later made landfall in Cuba and Louisiana. Lili left almost $1 billion in damage and killed 15 people.

Tropical Depression Fourteen formed from a tropical wave on October 14. It had maximum wind speeds of 35 mph, and a minimum pressure of 1002 mbar. For most of the time, it was predicted to become a tropical storm, and to go up through the Bahamas. However, strong wind shear from the northeast did not allow development, and after making landfall in southern Cuba on October 16, it was destroyed by a cold front. Although it created heavy rains, there was no damage.
This is the list of names that were set aside for the Atlantic in 2002. Names that were not used are marked in .

After the season the names Isidore and Lili were retired. In 2008 Ike and Laura were used instead.


Wireless Markup Language

Wireless Markup Language (WML) is a programming language used for of wireless devices. It is similar to HTML. WML is a version of XML. This means that syntax is very important. Every tag needs to be properly nested and closed. WML can only be displayed in a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) Browser.


Maseru

Maseru (pronounced "ma'seru") is the capital city of Lesotho. It is near Mohokare River. Maseru is on the border with South Africa, and is connected to it through Maseru Bridge. The nearest city to Maseru in South Africa is named Ladybrand.

The National University of Lesotho amd the international airport called Moshoeshoe International Airport are near Maseru.

Maseru is a sister city of Austin, Texas.

Fandom

Fandom (from the noun "fan" and the affix "-dom", as in "kingdom", "dukedom", etc.) or fanbase is a name used for a group of people (called "fans") who are interested in something. A fandom can be about any interest or activity. Fandoms can be for example about hobbies, genres or fashions, book or movie series, or even individual celebrities.


New York Islanders

The New York Islanders are an ice hockey team that plays in the National Hockey League (NHL). They were a great team between 1980 and 1983, winning four Stanley Cups and a record 19 consecutive playoff series. The Islanders have played for most of their history in Nassau County, New York on Long Island. They played from 1972 to 2015 at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, New York, then temporarily moved to Brooklyn and the Barclays Center starting with the 2015–16 season. However, Barclays Center proved to be less than desirable as a hockey venue, and the team returned to the Coliseum part-time in 2018–19 and 2019–20 and full-time in 2020–21.

In November 2021, the Islanders opened their current home of UBS Arena, next to the Belmont Park horse racing track in Elmont, a community next to the New York City borough of Queens.

Notes

Arizona Coyotes

The Arizona Coyotes are an ice hockey team that plays in the NHL. They play in Tempe, Arizona.
In 1996, the team moved to Phoenix from Winnipeg, Canada, where they were known as the Jets. The team moved to the suburb of Glendale in December 2003. They have never won a Stanley Cup. Their head coach is Rick Tocchet and their general manager is Bill Armstrong. Wayne Gretzky resigned as head coach on September 14, 2009. In May 2009, the Coyotes filed for bankruptcy protection.

They officially changed their name from the Phoenix Coyotes to the Arizona Coyotes on June 27, 2014.


Buffalo Sabres

The Buffalo Sabres are an ice hockey team that plays in the National Hockey League.


Columbus Blue Jackets

The Columbus Blue Jackets are an ice hockey team that plays in the NHL. They are one of the newest teams in the NHL, created in 2000. The Blue Jackets first made the playoffs in 2009. The coach right now is John Tortorella. The Blue Jackets play at Nationwide Arena. They play in the Metropolitan Division.


Atlanta Thrashers

The Atlanta Thrashers were an American professional ice hockey team that played in Atlanta, Georgia. They played in the National Hockey League (NHL). The Thrashers played their home games at Philips Arena. The team played in the Southeast Division of the Eastern Conference.

They only made the NHL playoffs once, in the 2006–2007 season.

On May 31, 2011, investors named True North Sports and Entertainment purchased the Atlanta Thrashers. The sale was approved by the National Hockey League on June 21, 2011.

The Thrashers did not qualify for the playoffs.

The Thrashers did not qualify for the playoffs.

Rachael Ray

Rachael Ray (born August 25, 1968 in Glen Falls, New York) is an Emmy Award-winning television personality and author. Her family roots are from Sicily, Italy. Her TV shows include "30 minute Meals", "$40 a Day", "Rachael Ray's Tasty Travels" and "The Rachael Ray Show in September 2006 First Episode in Rachael Ray". In September 2010, "Rachael Ray's Week In a Day" began airing on the Cooking Channel. She has written 12 cookbooks. Plus Stay Home & More Episodes in Season 14/Season 15 Make Room For Season 16. Her family was from Italy, and she helped her family in the kitchen at a young age in Cape Cod at her family owned restaurant. In her early 20's she pursued her culinary aspirations in New York City, where she started out behind Macy's candy counter before managing its fresh foods department.

Sophora

Sophora is a genus of about 45 species of small trees and shrubs. It is in the subfamily "Faboideae" of the pea family "Fabaceae". Many students see Sophora as three genera: "Sophora", "Calia" (S. secundiflora) and "Styphnolobium" (S. japonica).


Cyanobacteria

Cyanobacteria are a taxon of bacteria which conduct photosynthesis. They are not algae, though they were once called blue-green algae. It is a phylum of bacteria, with about 1500 species. In endosymbiont theory, chloroplasts (plastids) are descended from cyanobacteria. Their DNA profile is evidence for this.

Cyanobacteria have an extremely long fossil record, starting at least 3,500 million years ago. They were the main organisms in the stromatolites of the Archaean and Proterozoic eons.

The ability of cyanobacteria to perform oxygenic photosynthesis is highly significant. The early atmosphere on Earth was largely reducing, that is, without oxygen. The cyanobacteria in stromatolites were the first known organisms to photosynthesise and produce free oxygen. After about a billion years, the effect of this photosynthesis began a huge change in the atmosphere. The process, called the Great Oxygenation Event, took a long time. Eventually, it killed off most of the organisms which could not live in oxygen, and led to the kinds of environment we know today, where most organisms use and need oxygen.

Cyanobacteria have a way of detecting light. Conrad Mullineaux, of Queen Mary University of London, said, "It has a way of detecting where the light is; we know that because of the direction that it moves".


Teletypewriter

A teletypewriter (TTY; also called a teletype or teleprinter) is a device that sends a typed message to another place. A teletypewriter has a typewriter keyboard, a local printer (so the user can see what has been typed) and a transmitter. Messages can be sent over wires or radio waves. Teletypes were used mostly in the early to mid-20th century. They were developed to improve telegraphs, some of which also used keyboards, though not typewriter keyboards.

Though teleprinters have been replaced by other technologies, TDDs (Telecommunications Devices for the Deaf), which are based on the idea and design of teletypes, are still used these days. Not all people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or speech-impaired have switched to using instant messaging or texting or other modern services. Many still type messages back and forth to one another by TDD.



Of Montreal

of Montreal is an American indie pop band. The band was formed in Athens, Georgia. The lead singer of the band is Kevin Barnes. He started the group as the only member. It was one of the second wave of groups to come from The Elephant 6 Recording Company. They have released twelve studio albums.



Alcalá de Henares

Alcalá de Henares is a city in the Community of Madrid, Spain. It is thirty kilometres from Madrid. It has about 200,000 people. There is a university. Miguel de Cervantes, an important Spanish writer, the author of the "Don Quixote", was born there.

Alpine newt

The alpine newt ("Ichthyosaura alpestris") is an amphibian. It is a Salamander (Urodela or Caudata). The alpine newt is one of five newts in Germany.

Early in the year, alpine newts mate. During that time, the males have a blue color on their sides but not too much to overlap their white-black-spotted flank. Their belly is a bright orange.
The females are more camouflaged to their marshy environment. They are a mottled brown with barely visible, black spots.

The biggest of the males can reach up to nine, and the females up to twelve centimeters in length. After the mating season, they return to their natural color of the mottled brown.

The alpine newt typically lives in forests with good access to water in hilly to mountainous regions. They are mostly absent in forest-poor areas. They often occur in thick deciduous forests, as well as parland and natural gardens. Outside the spawning season, the Alpine Newt is a land animal. During the day it stays in all kinds of undergrowth, but during the mating season in cool water (forest pools, artificial pools). After the adults come out of winter dormancy, the alpine newts immediately take themselves to the spawning pools.

The spread of the alpine newt is constricted to Central Europe and parts of mountainous Southern Europe as well as an isolated area on the Iberian Peninsula.

There is also some introduced wild populations in the UK

After a steep decrease in the alpine newt population in the 1960s-70s, they have recovered their numbers a bit. Surveillance in the surrounding area of Cologne (approximately 50m above sea level) showed an increase in alpine newt numbers, but the numbers of newts in breeding pools seemed to decline. In home gardens, newts are settling in pools in which there may be a high reproduction rate. If fish are in these ponds, the population will be completely wiped out. However, a small pool of 150 litres volume had more than 60 alpine newt tadpoles of different sizes at the beginning of July 2003. They were likely spawned from just one female.

The alpine newt has been usually placed into the "Triturus" genus. García-París | display-authors = etal split the genus Triturus into three, and placed the alpine newt into its own genus "Mesotriton". Also the subspecies "T. a. inexpectatus" was elevated to species status. However this split has not been completely accepted yet. Originally 9 subspecies of the alpine newt were recognized.

Differential equation

A differential equation is a mathematical equation that involves variables like formula_1 or formula_2, as well as the rate at which those variables change. Differential equations are special because the solution of a differential equation is itself a function instead of a number.

In applications of mathematics, problems often arise in which the dependence of one parameter on another is unknown, but it is possible to write an expression for the rate of change of one parameter relative to another (derivative). In this case, the problem is reduced to finding a function by its derivative related to some other expressions.

If a differential equation only involves formula_1 and its derivative, the rate at which formula_1 changes, then it is called a first order differential equation. A higher-order differential equation has derivatives of other derivatives. If there are more variables than just formula_1 and formula_2, then it is said to be a partial differential equation. Sometimes, something will obey several differential equations at the same time. These are said to be modeled by coupled differential equations.

Some differential equations can be solved exactly, and some cannot. Sometimes one can only be estimated, and a computer program can do this very fast. Although they may seem overly-complicated to someone who has not studied differential equations before, the people who use differential equations tell us that they would not be able to figure important things out without them. Most scientists and engineers (as well as mathematicians) take at least one course in differential equations while in college. Some mathematicians devote their career to investigating differential equations that are difficult to solve.

Differential equations are used in many fields of science since they describe real-world things:



Windhoek

Windhoek () is the capital city of Namibia. It has a population of 230,000 people. Windhoek is the trade center for sheep skins. The area was controlled by Germany in 1885. It became the capital of the German colony, German South-West Africa, in 1892. During World War I, Windhoek was captured by South Africa. It was the capital of South West Africa (Namibia) under South African control until the independence of Namibia in 1990. 

Windhoek has a semi-desert climate.

Windhoek is known to be among the cleanest cities in Africa.



Boiling tube

A boiling tube is a large tube made of glass, which is used in laboratory to strongly heat substances. A boiling tube is a scaled-up test tube, but larger in size. This larger size allows substances to boil freely inside a boiling tube.

Boiling tubes can also be used as a replacement for test tubes specially when a larger volume is desired.

Boiling tubes are commonly made from Pyrex glass which can tolerate high temperatures.

Boiling tube is also known as Hard Glass Tube

1982 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1982 Atlantic hurricane season was a yearly event of tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean. The season officially started on June 1, 1982, and ended on November 30, 1982. Six named storms formed during the season, along with 2 hurricanes.

While most of the storms were usually weak, the most deadliest storm of the season was Tropical Storm Beryl which killed 115 people while moving across the Caribbean Sea.

A tropical depression formed off western Cuba on June 1 from an group of organized thunderstorms. It moved slowly northeastward through the Gulf of Mexico, and strengthened into Tropical Storm Alberto on June 3. Alberto travelled usually northeast on an unpredictable course and for a hort time, strengthened to a Category 1 hurricane, one of the earliest hurricanes of June. Alberto then quickly weakened back into a tropical storm, moved back to the west, and died near the Florida Keys, Florida, on June 6.

Though the storm never made landfall, Alberto killed 23 people in Cuba from heavy flooding. Southern Florida saw fair rainfall, with a maximum of 16.47 inches occurring in Tavernier.

The first subtropical storm of the season formed in the eastern part of the Gulf of Mexico on June 18, and took an almost straight path to the northeast for its whole life. It crossed the Florida peninsula that night, causing an issue of several severe thunderstorm and tornado warnings. The storm continued, crossing the Outer Banks of North Carolina, and kept its strength until June 20 when it became extratropical near Newfoundland.

Subtropical Storm One caused three deaths in Florida, sank a fishing ship off the coast of North Carolina, and caused $10 million in damage (1982 USD, $20 million 2005 USD).

Beryl became a tropical storm on August 28 while southeast of the Cape Verde islands. The tropical storm travelled slowly west-northwest, while once coming close to hurricane strength. While midway across the Atlantic on September 2, it weakened to a tropical depression. The depression continued west until its circulation collapsed on September 6, just north of the Windward Islands. Beryl killed 115 people in the Cape Verde islands. Though the Cape Verde islands are usually not affected by hurricanes, another tropical storm, Fran, hit the islands in 1984, killing 31 people.

A non-tropical low formed on September 8 in the Gulf of Mexico. It moved west, and the next day it became into a subtropical depression. Under the control of another low pressure system, the depression turned north, and after slowly becoming better organized it strengthened into Tropical Storm Chris on September 10. The storm had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph (100 km/h) before moving onto land near Sabine Pass in Louisiana. Chris continued to move inland until it died over central Arkansas on September 13.

Just before Chris made landfall, as many as 6,500 people moved out from southern Louisiana, while many oil workers moved inland. Chris caused a total of $2 million (1982 USD) in damages.

Debby began as a tropical wave that collapsed shortly after leaving the coast of Africa. The wave travelled across the Atlantic, and became a tropical depression off the northern coast of Haiti on September 13. The depression turned north and strengthened into a tropical storm and then a hurricane. Hurricane Debby moved north-northeast, affecting Bermuda with tropical storm-force winds. It continued strengthening as it moved north, peaking at 135 mph (220 km/h). Tropical storm-force winds were also recorded at Cape Race in Newfoundland when Debby passed by on September 18. The storm began to speed up and weaken over the colder waters of the north Atlantic. Debby combined itself with a strong non-tropical system over the British Isles on September 20.

The tropical disturbance that eventually formed Debby dropped heavy rainfall across Puerto Rico, peaking at 12.86 inches in the southwestern part of the island. Debby was known to cause only minor damages that was related to the storm.

A tropical wave formed off the coast of Africa on September 23. The westeren part of the wave grew bigger and was called Tropical Depression Six on September 30. The depression strengthened, and made a sharp turn on October 1. An Air Force plane found 40 mph winds with a pressure of 1003 mbar and the depression was given the name Ernesto. A second Air Force plane on October 2 found 70 mph winds with a pressure of 997 mbar. By October 3, Ernesto was no longer recognized after combining itself with an extratropical low. Ernesto never came near land and caused no damages.

Ouagadougou

Ouagadougou (, is the capital of Burkina Faso. It is also the country's biggest city. In Ouagadougou, people mainly make clothing and food. Ouagadougou's mayor is chosen every five years. Ouagadougou is near the equator. It is always warm. In Ouagadougou, people speak French. Ouagadougou is one of the poorest cities in Africa. Almost 70% of its people can not read or write but the city has ten universities.

Informal trade is widespread in the streets.

Jihadist insurgents carried out major attacks in 2016, 2017 and 2018.

Ouagadougou is twinned with following cities:

Venetian language

The Venetian language (in Venetian: "") is a Romance language.

It was the language once spoken in the Republic of Venice.
In the present day, it is spoken in the Italian regions of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, in Slovenia and in Croatia. It is also spoken in Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina states) and Mexico (town of Chipilo) by the descendants of Italian immigrants.

Yamoussoukro

Yamoussoukro is the capital city of Côte d'Ivoire (The Ivory Coast). About 200,000 people live in this city. Yamoussoukro became the capital in 1983. Abidjan was the capital before that.

Before the Second World War, Yamoussoukro was a small city. It was mainly made up of farms. In 1964, the president of Côte d'Ivoire decided to make Yamoussoukro the capital because it was where he grew up. In 1983, Yamoussoukro became the capital of Ivory Coast. In 1990, the Pope opened the biggest church in the world. It is called Basilica of Our Lady of Peace of Yamoussoukro. In 2004, Yamoussoukro's airport was attacked by France because airplanes from that airport had killed 9 people from France. 

Yamoussoukro is famous for the biggest church in the world, The Basilica of Our Lady of Peace of Yamoussoukro. Also, it is very tall. 

Bloemfontein

Bloemfontein is one of the three capital cites of South Africa. It is the judicial capital of South Africa, as the Supreme Court is there. In Afrikaans and Dutch, Bloemfontein means "Spring of Bloem (Bloom)". It is also known as the city of roses. There are a lot of flowers in Bloemfontein.

Bloemfontein was founded by Major H. Douglas Warden in 1846. It was created as both a fort and a place to live. It became the center of government of the British-controlled Orange River Sovereignty (1848–54) and of the Orange Free State (later known as just Free State).

Bloemfontein became the judicial capital of South Africa in 1910. It is a place where the government works. It has a lot of hospitals and schools.

Bloemfontein is in central South Africa. It is dry in this part of South Africa. There are a few hills around Bloemfontein. Grass mostly grows around Bloemfontein. The summers are hot, and the winters are cool, but it snowed in August 2006.

Much of the economy of the city is based on canned fruit, glass products, furniture, plastics, and railway engineering. The city saw a large economic growth in the mid-20th century because of the Free State goldfields 160 km (100 mi) northeast of the city. The Orange River project also helped the city grow economically. It is a major source both of hydroelectricity and of water for irrigation and human uses.

The most popular sports in Bloemfontein are football, rugby, and cricket. In 2010, Bloemfontein will host some FIFA World Cup matches, at Free State Stadium.


Jack Black

Thomas Jacob Black (born August 28, 1969) is an American actor, comedian and musician. He is an important member of the Frat Pack, a name used by members of the media for a group of comedians active in today's Hollywood movies. Black is also in order for some of Hollywood's largest movies and smallest indie films. He and Kyle Gass make up the comedy-rock duo Tenacious D. Black starred in the movie "Tenacious D in The Pick of Destiny", which is based on a true story. He also starred in the 2008 movie "Tropic Thunder".

Black was born on August 28, 1969, in Santa Monica, California to Thomas Black and Judith Cohen. His father is of English, French, German, Irish, Scottish, and Welsh descent. His mother is Jewish and of Russian descent. Since March 14, 2006, he is married to Tanya Haden. They have two sons.

Dough

Dough is a thick, malleable and sometimes elastic paste made out of flour by mixing it with a small amount of water. Dough can be used to make bread, pastries, cookies, muffins, and other foods.

In many parts of central India, people use the quick method of making an instant roasted dough ball or baati. Flat, unleavened breads known as roti, lavash, yufka, matzo, and tortilla are used in many parts of the world today.

Leavened dough, made from dry, ground grains mixed with water and yeast, is used all over the world. It includes all kinds of breads made from wheat, maize, rice and other grains or similar crops used today in the world.

Fried dough foods are common in many cultures. In the United States, "elephant ears" is a common name for fried dough.

In slang, dough is money.

Muffin

A muffin is a small bread- or cake-like baked food. Muffins are similar to cupcakes: they have round bases, rounded tops, and are usually sweet, but there are also savory kinds (like cornbread muffins). A "muffin" can also mean a different baked food, the smaller, disk-shaped English muffin, although this is not common outside Britain. In Britain, the term can mean either type of muffin. Muffins can also have extra ingredients to its flavour, such as blueberries or chocolate chips. Muffins are usually eaten at breakfast but can be eaten at any other meal. It is usually served with tea.

English muffin

An English muffin (known as a muffin or breakfast muffin in the United Kingdom) is a round, flat bread made from a dough with yeast and enriched with butter and milk. It is often served toasted at breakfast in the UK, USA, Canada and Australia.

Cornbread

Cornbread or Johnny cake is a name for any number of "quick breads"- bread leavened chemically instead of by yeast- which has cornmeal. As maize (also known as corn) is native to North America, the various kinds of cornbreads are more prevalent there. For example the Cuisine of the Southern United States includes "cornpone". In Italy, the corn-based mush known as polenta is sometimes fashioned into a fried form resembling cornbread.

Cupcake

Small, individual cakes called cupcakes are usually prepared in muffin tins and decorated with frosting or other toppings. They are available in an array of flavors, from the traditional combos of chocolate and vanilla to more complex ones like red velvet or lemon raspberry. Cupcakes are a popular dessert for every occasion as well as for festivities and parties.They are often baked in a small thin paper or aluminum cup. Like larger cakes, frosting and other cake decorations, such as sprinkles, are common on cupcakes. They are often sweet and include frosting. Some specialized bakeries sell only cupcakes.

The first cupcake could be traced back to 1796. A recipe for "a cake to be baked in small cups" was written in "American Cookery" by Amelia Simmons. The earliest use of the term "cupcake" was in “Seventy-five Receipts for Pastry, Cakes, and Sweetmeats” in 1828 in Eliza Leslie's "Recipes" cookbook.

In the early 19th century, there were two different uses for the name "cup cake" or "cupcake". Before muffin tins were widely available, the cakes were often baked in individual pottery cups, ramekins, or molds. They got their name from the cups they were baked in. The name "fairy cake" is a description of its size. It would be appropriate for a party of small fairies to share a fairy cake. English "fairy cakes" vary in size more than American cupcakes. They are normally smaller and are rarely topped with much icing.

The other kind of "cup cake" referred to a cake whose ingredients were measured by volume. They were measured using a standard-sized cup instead of being weighed. Recipes with ingredients that were measured using a standard-sized cup could also be baked in cups. They were more commonly baked in tins. In later years, when the use of volume measurements was more used in home kitchens, these recipes became known as "1234 cakes" or "quarter cakes". They were called this because they are made up of four ingredients: one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, and four eggs. They are plain yellow cakes that are less rich and less expensive than pound cake. This is because they use about half as much butter and eggs compared to pound cake. The names of these two major classes of cakes were to tell the baker whether to measure by volume or weight.

Curry

Curry (from Tamil "kari") is the English word for any of a general variety of spiced dishes, best known in Indian, Bangladeshi, Sri Lankan, Indonesian, Malaysian, Pakistani, Thai, and other South Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines. Curry has also been adopted into many other cuisines. Curry first came from India. The idea of curry was later brought to the West by British colonialists in India from the 18th century. Dishes that are often called curries in Europe and America are rarely called curries in their native languages.

Curry can also be found in the United Kingdom and Jamaica. It is usually eaten with Basmati rice or naan, a type of flat bread.

A curry dish called Balti is said to have been originated in Birmingham, United Kingdom and has been dubbed Britain’s de facto national dish.


Shore

A shore or shoreline is the land at the edge of a large body of water, such as an ocean or river. Where the water is a sea, the shore is also called a "coast".

Shores are influenced by the topography of the surrounding landscape, as well as by erosion caused by water, such as waves. The geological makeup of rock and soil controls the type of shore which is created. Erosion of sedimentary soils can make a sandy or pebbly shore, usually called a beach. 

A shore includes the intertidal zone that is alternately exposed and covered by waves and tides.

A shore will often have a lighthouse on it to help ships in the sea.

Stick

A stick is a long, slender piece of wood, usually a branch from a tree without the leaves.

Stick may mean:

In objects of similar shape:

Stick may also mean:

In nicknames:

In music:


Bleach (manga)

The manga was released in August 2001 in Shueisha's "Weekly Shonen Jump" magazine. New Japanese-language chapters are featured weekly in the same magazine. The chapters are complied in seven-to-nine chapter books every few months. The anime series aired on Wednesday by TV Tokyo. The first 63 episodes were based on the manga, and the next 46 were original to the anime. Beginning with episode 110, the anime has returned to the manga storyline, yet has parts from the previous 46 filler episodes. There are no plans to stop making the series. Also, two OVAs have been produced and two animated films, "", which was released in Japan on December 16, 2006, and Bleach: The Diamond Dust Rebellion, which was released on December 22, 2007. Viz Media released twenty six English language volumes of the manga in North America, and many scanlation groups release unofficial English translations of new chapters.

Ichigo Kurosaki is a teenager from Karakura Town who can see ghosts, a talent which lets him cross paths with Rukia Kuchiki, a Soul Reapers whose task is guiding dead spirits from the World of the Living to the Soul Society and defeat Hollows, monstrous lost souls who can harm both ghosts and humans. Wounded by a Hollow she was hunting, Rukia transfers her powers to Ichigo so that he may fight in her stead while she recovers her strength in an artificial human body. Ichigo balances the demands of his substitute Soul Reaper duties and high school while gaining allies in his classmate Orihime Inoue, Yasutora "Chad" Sado, and Uryu Ishida of the Quincies.

When Rukia is arrested by her Soul Reaper superiors and sentenced to death, Ichigo and his friends travel to the Soul Society with the help of ex-Soul Reaper scientist Kisuke Urahara, who allows Ichigo to access his own Soul Reaper powers. Conflict unfolds in the Soul Society as Ichigo's group fight through the 13 Court Squads save Rukia, only to learn that everyone have been manipulated by Squad Five captain Sosuke Aizen who faked his death to cause disorder within the Soul Reapers. Aizen reveals himself to masterminded Rukia's capture to acquire Kisuke's desire-granting invention, the Hogyoku, before he and his fellow conspirators escape into the Hollows' realm of Hueco Mundo. Afterwards, Ichigo is accepted by the Soul Reapers and is made an official substitute Soul Reaper.

Ichigo and friends soon enter into escalating skirmishes with Aizen's army of humanoid Hollows, the Arrancars, while joined by the Vizards—Soul Reapers who were victims of Aizen's experiments in creating Soul Reaper/Hollow hybrids. When Orihime is kidnapped by Ulquiorra Cifer of the Espadas, Aizen's 10 most powerful Arrancars, Ichigo and his allies mount a rescue operation that turned out to be a distraction as Aizen's forces appear in Karakura Town with intent of sacrifice the residents to create a key as part of Aizen's plan to reach and assassinate the Soul King who reigns over the Soul Society. As the Vizards join the Soul Reapers defending the town, Aizen's conspirator Gin Ichimaru reals his true colors and attempts to kill Aizen. But Aizen uses Hogyoku to become a Hollow-like being, killing Gin while overpowering everyone. Ichigo ultimately subdues Aizen at the cost of his powers and reverts to a normal human. Months later, Ichigo prepares for life after high school when he is approached by Xcution, a gang of Fullbringers like Chad, who exploit him and his love ones to siphon his own Fullbring abilities. When Soul Society allies restore his Soul Reaper powers, Ichigo resolves to fight with them despite learning their apparent distrust when Xcution's leader Ginjo Kujo is revealed to be his predecessor.

Later, Ichigo faces an army of Quincies known as the Wandenreich who serve under their people's progenitor Yhwach, who declares war on the Soul Society with ever intent of eliminating the Soul King and dispute the balance of life and dead. Ichigo, learning the full story of himself being a Visard with both Fullbring and Quincy powers, defeats Yhwach in an epic battle with aid from Uryu and his father. Years later, Rukia and Ichigo have their own children, Ichika Abarai and Kazui Kurosaki, who are also Soul Reapers.

Whyalla, South Australia

Whyalla is a city on the Eyre Peninsula, on the shore of Spencer Gulf, South Australia.

Its main industries are associated with the iron ore mines. Whyalla acted as the port for the export of iron ore. 

To get the renewal of the mining lease, BHP had to build a blast furnace to smelt the ore into pig iron. This led to the establishment of steel making, and ship building industries, which were very active during the period 19601980.

The viability of these industries so far from markets declined. This led to the closure of many operations and a decline in the local population. At its peak, during the mid-1980s, about 35,000 people lived there.

Ron Paul

Ronald Ernest "Ron" Paul (born August 20, 1935) is an American Libertarian. He was formerly a Congressman from the state of Texas. He is retired but still travels around giving speeches about his beliefs.

He ran for President of the United States in 1988, 2008, and 2012 but he was defeated all three times. He has called himself a lifetime member of the Libertarian Party.

He is for reducing or removing most taxes and removing many government rules about how people may live and spend their money. He does not want the United States military going into or attacking other countries, but instead wants it to only stop others from attacking the United States. He also believes that the United States currency should not be controlled by the Federal Reserve, which is the central bank of the United States. He wants people to be allowed to use any currency they want when buying and selling.

His son Rand Paul is a U.S. Senator from Kentucky and 2016 presidential candidate.

In September 2020, Paul was hospitalized after having a minor stroke while livestreaming online in Texas.


Djibouti (city)

The city of Djibouti is the capital and largest city of the Republic of Djibouti. It lies on a peninsula between the Gulf of Aden and the Gulf of Tadjoura. Djibouti is home to about 400,000 people.

Features of Djibouti include beaches, a large Central Market, the national stadium Stade du Ville, the Presidential Palace and Hamouli Mosque. The Djibouti-Addis Ababa Railway runs from the city to Addis Ababa. Djubouti is also home to the Djibouti-Ambouli International Airport.

Djibouti was founded as a seaport in 1888. The city became the capital of French Somaliland in 1891. It replaced Tadjourah as the capital.

The peninsula was chosen because it is a natural port. It was attacked during WW2 by the Italians and later by the British.

Jamestown, Saint Helena

Jamestown is a harbour and the capital of the British island of Saint Helena. It was founded in 1659 by the East India Company. It's also famous for being the place where the famous French emperor, Napoleon lived when he was exiled to St. Helena. The town has a population of about 1,000 people. 

The town's most known feature is Jacob's Ladder. It is a walkway up the mountains with 699 steps. The ladder was built in 1829 to connect Jamestown to the military base on Ladder Hill. The ladder is very popular with tourists. It is beautifully lit at night. Each year, people come from all over the world to take part in a timed run up the ladder.

Many buildings in the city are built out of volcanic rock from the local area. The town is has a church, and port for unloading items delivered to the island.


Markus Näslund

Markus Näslund (born July 30, 1973, in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden) is a retired Swedish ice hockey player in the NHL. He was born in Ornskoldsvik, Sweden. He plays for the New York Rangers and is currently an alternate captain. He was considered very skilled and valuable and he was given the Lester B. Pearson award for the Most Outstanding Player in 2004.

Naslund began his career in Sweden, playing for Team Modo Hockey. Naslund was still quite young at that time. He played very well and was drafted by the NHL. In 1994, after being drafted by the NHL, he was taken in by the Pittsburgh Penguins. He started his rookie NHL years here. He did not play many games as he was not seen to be a great player at that time. Finally, the manager of the Penguins traded him to the Vancouver Canucks.

After being traded to the Canucks, Naslund was not used in games. The Vancouver coach thought that he was not very good, so Naslund asked to be traded. But he was not.
Suddenly, he was put in the lineup and did quite well compared to the rest of the team, which were struggling. In 2000, he was put with Todd Bertuzzi and they scored many goals together. Naslund was now a superstar and in 2004 he reached career highs and the NHL gave him the Lester B. Pearson award.
But in the 2006-2007 season, he struggled because Bertuzzi was traded away and it was much harder for him to score. But in the playoffs that year, he scored many goals in a short period of time. Naslund promised he would be much better next year. In the 2008 offseason, the Rangers signed Naslund to a two-year, $8 million contract. Naslund has spent most of his time with the Rangers playing on the team's first line with Scott Gomez as his center. On May 4, 2009 he announced his retirement from professional hockey.


Pier Gerlofs Donia

Pier Gerlofs Donia, 1480 - 1520. He fought for the independence of Friesland (which is now part of the Netherlands). He was a very big man. Some sources say that his height was 213 cm (almost seven feet). Donia was also known as Grutte Pier, which means ""Big Lad" Pier", in Frisian language, or Grote Pier, which means the same in Dutch language. He also was a pirate. This great man fought against the people from Holland, Germany, and the Burgundians.

According to legend, Pier forced his prisoners to repeat a special word, which was hard to pronounce for non-Frisians. This way he could distinguish Frisians from Dutch and Low Germans:

Or, in English translation:

Those prisoners who could not answer this in proper Frisian had their heads cut off by Donia himself. Pier was also noted for his ability to behead several people with a single blow. This meant he could kill many enemies at the same time during battle, and gave him an excellent advantage over his opponents. His famous fighting skills proved their worth in many battles.

One legend documents the fact that pier was strong enough to bend a coin between his fore finger and thumb.

Despite his many successes, Pier could not defeat the Burgundian/Hapsburg armies. He retired disillusioned in 1519. He died peacefully in bed in the Frisian town of Sneek on October 28 in the year 1520. His last words were spoken to his life-time enemy, the count of Nychlenborch. He was asked by the count were he wanted to go after he died, to which Pier replied ""Nea myn Heer ta"" (""To my Lord""). He then died. After the "Giant of Kimswerd" (another nickname) died, Friesland never again earned its freedom. It has remained a province of the Netherlands.

He was the uncle of the warrior Wijerd Jelckama.

Erasmus

Erasmus, full name Desiderius Erasmus Roterodamus, (28 October, probably 1466 in Rotterdam – 12 July 1536 in Basel) was a Dutch humanist, theologian and philosopher.

Erasmus was a classical scholar who wrote in a "pure" Latin style. Although he was a Catholic, he was critical of abuses in the Roman Catholic Church and wrote satires of them. He stood at the beginning of the reformation.

The following information from * to * is sourced from 'Oxford AQA History A LEVEL, The Tudors: England 1485-1603:

<nowiki>*</nowiki>He visited England four times, his most important visit being from 1509 to 1514 when he was appointed to a professorship at Cambridge University. During this visit, he also became a well known figure around the court of King Henry VIII. 

In 1516, he published a Greek New Testament complete with a new Latin translation. 

Some of his works include Julius Excluded from Heaven, On Civility in Children, The Praise of Folly, Discourse on Free Will, Copia: Foundations of the Abundant Style and a Handbook of a Christian Knight.

Although he was an important humanist figure who inspired who had some influence on the younger generations of English Humanists, the scope of Erasmian humanism is quite limited and much of the change that took place in England at this time stemmed from the influence of new religious thinking rather than simply scholarly Renaissance humanism. 

The term Erasmianism is defined as the body of ideas that is associated with Erasmus and his followers. *



Elfstedentocht

The Elfstedentocht, Dutch for ""Eleven cities tour"" is a race for people on ice skates. The race takes place on canals in Friesland in the north of the Netherlands. The route of the race goes through eleven towns and is nearly 200 kilometers long. It can only be held in winters when it has been cold enough to freeze the canals to enough depth to make it safe for skating on.

The race starts and finishes in Leeuwarden, the capital city of Friesland. The route goes through all eleven places in Friesland which are officially called "towns". The race has been held 15 times. The first year it took place was 1909. The most recent race was on 4 January 1997. The ice on the canals has to be at least 15 cm thick for the race to take place. It is a very tough race, although some years the race has been tougher than others, depending on the weather conditions. 1963 was an extremely cold winter. That year only one in 100 people who took part managed to finish the race.

Medals are given to the first 11 men and the first 5 women.

Sneek

Sneek (Frisian: "Snits") is a city in Friesland, in the Netherlands. In history, it is well known. The legendary warrior Pier Gerlofs Donia, fought a battle there. He is buried in the town in the Grote of Martinikerk. Since 2011, it has been part of the new municipality of Súdwest-Fryslân.

Huelva

Huelva is a city in Andalusia, Spain and the capital of the province of Huelva. According to the Instituto Nacional de Estadística (INE), 149,310 people live in Huelva. Huelva is the center of a metropolitan area that has 490,000 inhabitants. It is majority Muslim with a significant Catholic minority.

Richard Dawkins

Clinton Richard Dawkins DSc, FRS, FRSL (born Nairobi, 26 March 1941) is an English biologist, evolutionist, and writer. He is an emeritus Fellow of New College, Oxford, and was the University of Oxford's Simonyi Professor for Public Understanding of Science from 1995 until 2008.

Dawkins is an atheist, a vice president of the British Humanist Association, and a supporter of the Brights movement. He is well known for his criticism of creationism and intelligent design. In his 2006 book "The God Delusion", Dawkins contends that a supernatural creator almost certainly does not exist and that religious faith is a delusion—"a fixed false belief". As of January 2010, the English-language version had sold more than two million copies and had been translated into 31 languages.

Dawkins' ideas on evolution were heavily influenced by W.D. Hamilton. The influence can be seen throughout Dawkins' book "The Selfish Gene". They became friends at Oxford and, after Hamilton's death, Dawkins wrote his obituary and organised a secular memorial service.

He also writes for The Huffington Post.



Stalactite

A stalactite is a form that can be found on the ceiling of a cave. When a drop of water flows down the stalactite, the water evaporates and leaves a mineral deposit of calcite. This slowly increases the length and thickness of the stalactite.

The corresponding formation on the floor underneath a stalactite is known as a stalagmite. Given enough time, these formations can meet. The results are known as columns.

Slayer (disambiguation)

A slayer is someone who kills animals or people. The past tense of the verb "slay" is "slew" or "slain".

Slayer could also mean:

Ranma ½

Ranma ½ is an anime based on a manga by Rumiko Takahashi. It is 36 volumes long.

Ranma Saotome is the main character, who is 16 and good at martial arts. He learned from his father, a martial artist. Ranma was training with his father, Genma Saotome, when he falls into a spring which turns him into a girl from then on whenever cold water is poured on him. Genma fell into the spring of the panda, so he turns into a panda. Hot water makes them turn back.

After this both visit Soun Tendo, Genma's friend from a long time ago and his fighting partner. Soun teaches at his martial arts school. Soun tells Genma that he needs a grandchild to carry on the school, so he needs his daughter, Akane Tendo, to marry to get a child, who would receive an inheritance from him. Genma then says that Akane could marry Ranma, and so they become engaged.

Ranma and Akane don't get along at first but they become more friendly.

Ryoga Hibiki
One of Ranma's enemies. He and Ranma went to same school when they were children, but never got 
along.

Engagement

An engagement is an agreement or promise to marry, and also refers to the time between proposal and marriage. During this time, a couple is said to be affianced, engaged to be married, or simply engaged. An engagement can be seen by witnesses to confirm their marriage.

A fiancé is the man who is engaged. A fiancee is the woman who is engaged.

Traditionally, a ring is presented during the engagement ceremony.

Enrique Gaspar y Rimbau

Enrique Lucio Eugenio Gaspar y Rimbau (Madrid, March 2, 1842 – Olorón, September 7, 1902) was a Spanish diplomat and writer. Gaspar y Rimbau wrote plays, "zarzuelas" (light operas), and novels.

Laksa

Laksa is a popular spicy noodle soup from Peranakan culture. Curry laksa (sometimes called just "laksa") is a coconut soup made with prawns, beef, bean sprouts and chili. It is very spicy but can be made milder by leaving out some of the chilis.

Laksa is a popular food in Malaysia. A well-known Asam Laksa can be found in Air Itam, Penang.

Scarface (1983 movie)

Scarface is a 1983 American crime thriller movie. It was directed by Brian De Palma, written by Oliver Stone, produced by Martin Bregman and stars Al Pacino. The story is about Tony Montana, a Cuban criminal who moves to Miami, Florida and creates his own cocaine business. It is a loose remake of the 1932 movie "Scarface". The movie made $85 million.

Tony Montana is a prisoner from Cuba who is coming to the United States on a boat to escape the oppressive Communist government. Once there, he works for Frank Lopez, a Miami drug lord.

Soon, Tony kills Frank and takes over his business. He also marries Elvira, Frank's girlfriend who at first refused to go out with Tony because of Frank. Soon, Tony becomes very rich and powerful because of his growing cocaine empire. He meets Alejandro Sosa, a powerful Bolivian drug lord. Elvira later leaves Tony because she feels that despite all of their money and power, Tony's criminal lifestyle and drug problems make them losers.

Tony is eventually arrested for not paying taxes and even though he would be able to bribe some of the judges, he will still have to go to jail for three years. Sosa offers to have one of his contacts in the Justice Department write off Tony's charges if Tony kills a journalist who is going to make a speech against Sosa to the United Nations. Tony plants a bomb on the target's car, but sees the journalist's family inside it, and does not make the bomb go off. Tony later visits his best friend, Manny, but when he sees his sister, Gina, with him, he kills him. Gina reveals that she and Manny got married a few days earlier and wanted to surprise Tony. Tony, feeling extreme guilt for killing his friend and ruining his sister's life, withdraws to his mansion and begins to snort large amounts of cocaine. Sosa gets angry and sends many men to Miami to kill Tony. When the men enter Tony's mansion, they kill Gina and most of his men. Angry and sad at the death of his sister, Tony singlehandedly kills many of Sosa's men in a major shootout. Tony is then shot in the back by an assassin with a shotgun, and falls into his fountain below, dead.


Contract killing

Contract killing is murder where a person or group is paid (usually money) to murder someone else. Someone who does this is known as a "hit man" (also "hitman"), or "assassin". Contract killing is illegal, and is punishable, sometimes by death. Contract killing is often used by the mafia and drug cartels.

MDMA

MDMA (3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine), commonly seen in tablet form (ecstasy) and crystal form (molly or mandy), is a psychoactive drug with stimulant and psychedelic effects that is primarily used as a recreational drug. Drugs sold under the street names ecstasy, molly, or mandy are often advertised as pure MDMA, but are often mixed with multiple other drugs. MDMA can cause feelings of euphoria (extreme happiness) and altered sensations. Bad side effects include insomnia, nausea, rapid heartbeat, and addiction. It causes an initial increase in neurotransmitters that is followed by a short-term drop in neurotransmitters, which can lead to severe depression after coming down from the high.

MDMA is illegal in most countries. Possessing, making or selling it could result in criminal prosecution and a possible prison term. Some countries, such as the U.S., have made limited exceptions to these laws for research. There have been some initial studies on whether it can help patients with severe PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) make progress in therapy if they take very low doses of MDMA immediately before appointments (under medical supervision). , MDMA has no accepted medical uses. The use of MDMA has become more widespread in recent years. Among teens surveyed in 2018, more than 4% of 12 graders in the U.S. reported using ecstasy at some point in their lives. Even some very young teens are experimenting with the drug. More than 1.5% of 8 graders reported ever having used the drug.

Many ecstasy tablets, especially those sold online on the “dark net” are more potent than ever before, as well. According to one European study, while tablets in the 90s and early 2000s average about 50–80 mg, the average dose of an ecstasy tablet on the current market is now 125 mg. Some “super pills” have been marketed, with doses ranging between 270 and 340 mg.

MDMA has many effects on the human body and brain. It makes the brain release the chemicals serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine. During MDMA use the body also makes more of the hormones oxytocin and vasopressin.

All these effects together can make MDMA dangerous to use. The change in body temperature and the tendency to dance for hours on end can make users dehydrate if not enough water is drunk during this time (an example of dehydration and hyperthermia). Lots of dancing can also put pressure on the heart. People with existing heart conditions are vulnerable to these negative side effects.

Around 7 people die out of every million that use MDMA. Mostly this is due to overheating and dehydration. However, it is possible to drink too much water, swelling the brain and causing death. Many people have died from this after taking MDMA. Another factor is the hormone vasopressin, which is released during MDMA use. Vasopressin restricts the body's urge to urinate, which helps to get rid of excess liquid in the body before it becomes a problem.

Ecstasy is illegal in most, if not all, countries. In the United States, it is classified as a "Schedule I" drug. Schedule I drugs have no official medical use and are highly addictive. Some scientists believe Ecstasy may be useful in therapy since it has been found to reduce fear in some individuals. Recently, there has been some research on if it can help people with severe PTSD confront painful memories during therapy appointments. It may also have potential to help people diagnosed with cancer manage their anxiety about death.

Saffir–Simpson scale

The Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale is a scale that is used to sort tropical cyclones in the Western Hemisphere. It is only used for storms that are stronger than "tropical storms", and become actual hurricanes. The categories into which the scale separates hurricanes are noted by the strength of their maximum sustained wind speeds. The classifications are used mainly to predict the possible wind damage a hurricane will create when it makes landfall. It does not measure rainfall or storm surge or how wide the storm is.

The scale is also used to classify subtropical cyclones after a change in the rules made by the National Hurricane Center in 2002.

The Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale is used only to describe hurricanes that form in the Atlantic Ocean and northern Pacific Ocean, to the east of the International Date Line. Other areas call their tropical storms by other names, and use their own classification scales.

Dangerous winds will produce some damage

Category 1 storms may damage roofs, shingles, vinyl sidings, and gutters to well-constructed frame homes. Large branches of trees will snap and shallowly rooted trees may be toppled. Extensive damage to power lines and poles likely will result in power outages that could last a few to several days.

Hurricanes that peaked at Category 1 intensity and made landfall at that intensity include: Agnes (1972), Juan (1985), Ismael (1995), Gaston (2004), Stan (2005), Humberto (2007), Isaac (2012), Manuel (2013), Earl (2016), Hermine (2016), Nate (2017), Barry (2019), Hanna (2020), Isaias (2020), Nana (2020), Julia (2022), Lisa (2022), and Nicole (2022).

Extremely dangerous winds will cause extensive damage

Category 2 storms may produce extremely dangerous winds that will cause extensive damage: Well-constructed frame homes could sustain major roof and siding damage. Many shallowly rooted trees will be snapped or uprooted and block numerous roads. Near-total power loss is expected with outages that could last from several days to weeks.

Hurricanes that peaked at Category 2 intensity and made landfall at that intensity include: Able (1952), Alice (1954), Ella (1958), Fifi (1974), Diana (1990), Gert (1993), Rosa (1994), Erin (1995), Alma (1996), Juan (2003), Alex (2010), Richard (2010), Tomas (2010), Carlotta (2012), Ernesto (2012), Arthur (2014), And Sally (2020)

Devastating damage will occur

Tropical cyclones of Category 3 and higher are major hurricanes, and devastating damage will occur: Well-built framed homes may incur major damage or removal of roof decking and gable ends. Many trees will be snapped or uprooted, blocking numerous roads. Electricity and water will be unavailable for several days to weeks after the storm passes.

Hurricanes that peaked at Category 3 intensity and made landfall at that intensity include: Easy (1950), Carol (1954), Hilda (1955), Audrey (1957), Celia (1970), Ella (1970), Caroline (1975), Eloise (1975), Olivia (1975), Alicia (1983), Elena (1985), Roxanne (1995), Fran (1996), Isidore (2002), Jeanne (2004), Lane (2006), Karl (2010), Otto (2016), Zeta (2020), and Grace (2021) 

Catastrophic damage will occur

Category 4 storms may cause catastrophic damage. Well-built framed homes can sustain severe damage with loss of most of the roof structure and/or some exterior walls. Most trees will be snapped or uprooted and power poles downed. Fallen trees and power poles will isolate residential areas. Power outages will last weeks to possibly months. Most of the area will be uninhabitable for weeks or months.

The 1900 Galveston hurricane, the deadliest natural disaster (at the time) to hit the United States, peaked at an intensity that corresponds to a modern-day Category 4 storm. Other examples of storms that peaked at Category 4 intensity and made landfall at that intensity include: Donna (1960), Flora (1963), Cleo (1964), Betsy (1965), Carmen (1974), Frederic (1979), Iniki (1992), Iris (2001), Charley (2004), Dennis (2005),Ike (2008), Joaquin (2015), Harvey (2017), Laura (2020), Eta (2020), Iota 2020), and Ida (2021), and Lidia (2023)

Near-total damage will occur

Category 5 is the highest category of the Saffir–Simpson scale. These storms cause roofs to break apart on many buildings, and some building may break apart, with small utility buildings blown over or away. Collapse of many roofs and walls, especially those with no inside supports, is common. Very heavy and unfixable damage to many wooden buildings and total destruction to mobile/manufactured homes is common. Only a few types of buildings can survive, and only if located at least inland. They include office, condominium and apartment buildings and hotels that are of concrete or steel frame construction, multi-story concrete parking garages, and residences that are made of either lots of brick or concrete/cement block and have roofs with slopes of no less than 35 degrees from a horizontal angle and no overhangs of any kind, and if the windows are either made of hurricane-resistant safety glass or covered with shutters. Unless most of these requirements are met, the catastrophic destruction of a structure may occur.

The storm's flooding causes major damage to the lower floors of all structures near the shoreline, and many coastal structures can be completely flattened or washed away by the storm surge. Virtually all trees are uprooted or snapped and some may be debarked, isolating most affected communities. Massive evacuation of residential areas may be required if the hurricane threatens populated areas. Total and extremely long-lived power outages and water losses are to be expected, possibly for up to several months.

Historical examples of storms that made landfall at Category 5 status include: (1924), "Okeechobee" (1928), (1932), (1933), (1935), Janet (1955), Camille (1969), Edith (1971), Anita (1977), David (1979), Gilbert (1988), Andrew (1992), Dean (2007), Felix (2007), Irma (2017), Maria (2017), Michael (2018), Dorian (2019), Ian (2022) and in the eastern pacific basin, Otis (2023).

Eastern Catholic churches

The Eastern Catholic Churches are autocephalous Christian churches. They recognize the Bishop of Rome as their spiritual leader, like other Catholics.They differ on ideas as how a mass should be organised, or which prayers are more important than others. 

In total there are 23 such churches, the probably best known are listed below:





Sanjaya Malakar

Sanjaya Joseph Malakar (; ; born September 10, 1989) is an American singer. He is best known for being on the sixth season of "American Idol". He was not well liked by the program's judges, mainly Simon Cowell. He was voted off after the top 7 participants.

Pangolin

Pangolins (or scaly anteaters) are mammals which live in Africa and Asia. They have scales on their skin. They are the only mammals which have this adaptation.

There are three genera of pangolin, all of which eat ants and termites. They catch their food using their tongues, and they do not eat anything else. These scaled mammals are one of the most threatened groups of mammals. 
Unfortunately we know very little of their distribution in West African countries. Evidence of the white bellied pangolin (Phataginus tricuspis) has been found. No evidence of the giant pangolin (Smutsia gigantic) was found. Perhaps the giant pangolin no longer appears in West Africa.

Pangolins have features of armadillos (long, ant eating tongue and broad tail) and sloths (claws), but the pangolin is in a completely different order. The pangolin belongs to the order Pholidota.

Pangolins have large, hardened, overlapping plate-like scales. The pangolin scales are made of keratin. and are attached to muscles under the skin. and can be moved to point towards predators. Hair grows between the scales and near the rear of the animal.

The pangolin's scaled body is a bit like a pine cone or globe artichoke. It can curl up into a ball when threatened, with its overlapping scales acting like armour while it tucks its face under its tail. The scales are sharp, providing extra defence from predators.

A pangolin's main predators are wild cats, hyenas and humans.
A mother pangolin's gestation period is between 120 and 180 days. Young pangolin are born with scales, and they harden by the second day the pangopup is out of the womb.

When walking on a level surface the pangolin is bipedal. It walks on the back legs. Its body is held horizontal, and is balanced by its heavy tail at the back.

Sometimes pangolins are smuggled into China on the black market. Their scales are used as an ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine.

Pangolins are a critically endangered species and have been hunted and trafficked all across Asia and Africa. They are usually sought for their scales, meat and medical properties. This creature is a host for SARS-CoV-2 and similar viruses.


Antananarivo

Antananarivo is the capital city of Madagascar. It is the largest city in the country. The city is the administrative, communications and economic center of Madagascar.

Antananarivo has a population of over 1.4 million people. Including an Anglican cathedral and a Roman Catholic cathedral, there are about fifty churches in the city and its suburbs. There is also a Muslim mosque. Antananarivo is home of the University of Madagascar and the Collège Rural d'Ambatobe.

Antananarivo was founded in about 1625 by King Andrianjaka. The name, Antananarivo, means "the City of the Thousand". It comes from the number of soldiers Andrianjaka used to guard the city.

Until 1869 all buildings in the city were of wood or rushes. Since the introduction of stone and brick, the whole city has been rebuilt. It now has many notable structures. For example, the royal palaces, the Anglican and Roman Catholic cathedrals, several stone and brick churches, colleges, schools, hospitals, courts of justice and other government buildings.

The city was captured by the French in 1895. Since then, good roads have been built in the city.

Antananarivo Renivohitra website 

Alex (parrot)

Alex (1976–2007) was an African grey parrot. 

He was part of a study under animal psychologist Irene Pepperberg since 1977 at two different universities: Brandeis University in Massachusetts and before that, University of Arizona. He died on Sept 7, 2007, of yet unknown causes. He knew about 100 words as of 2000, and was not ordinary because he appeared to understand what he said. For example, when Alex was shown an object and was asked about its shape, color, or material, he could label it correctly. If he was asked the difference between two things, he would also answer that, but if there was no difference between the things, he would say “none.”

Alex's name is an acronym. ALEX is short for Avian Learning EXperiment.


Lobamba

Lobamba is the legislative capital of Eswatini (which used to be called Swaziland). The Parliament of Eswatini and home of the Queen Mother are in this city. It is located in the west of the country, in the district of Hhohho. Its population is about 10,000 people.

Lobamba is famous for two ceremonies. The Reed Dance is in August and September. This celebration is in honour of the Queen Mother. The Incwala Kingship, in December and January, is in honour of the King. These ceremonies include dancing, singing, and celebrations with traditional clothing.

The Embo State Palace, the Royal Kraal, Swazi National Museum, Swazi Parliament and a museum about Sobhuza II of Eswatini are in the town. The Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary and Matsapha Airport lie nearby.

Bobby Lashley

Franklin Roberto "Bobby" Lashley (born July 16, 1976) is an American professional wrestler and mixed martial artist. He is currently signed to WWE, where he performs on the SmackDown brand and is the leader of the stable "The Pride". He is also known for his time in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), where he competed under the ring name Lashley. He is an eight-time world champion, having been a two-time WWE Champion, two-time ECW World Champion, and four-time TNA World Heavyweight Champion. He also won the WWE United States Championship three times and the WWE Intercontinental Championship twice.

He is also an MMA fighter, where he was considered a top draw for . He has not fought professionally since 2016.

Lashley went to Missouri Valley College. While he was there, he won three national amateur wrestling championships between 1996 and 1998. During 1997 and 1998 he was the NAIA National Wrestling Champion. He wrestled at the weight of 177 pounds (80 kilograms). Lashley later joined the United States Army, where he continued to wrestle.

In November 2003, Lashley started professional wrestling. He began working for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). WWE sent him to Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), where he started his training under Lance Storm. During 2005, Lashley appeared at four live events for both the "RAW" and "SmackDown!" brands. On September 23 2005, Lashley made his televised WWE debut on "SmackDown!"

On November 14, Lashley moved to the ECW brand. Lashley signed a contract for the final spot in a six-man match for the ECW World Championship at December to Dismember. Lashley won the match and became the new ECW World Champion. This made Lashley the first African American to hold the ECW title. Lashley lost the title to Vince McMahon in May of 2007. On June 3, 2007, he defeated McMahon to get the title back. 
On the June 11 episode of "Raw", Lashley was drafted to the Raw brand as part of the 2007 WWE draft. As a result of the move, Lashley was stripped of the ECW World Championship by McMahon. Lashley was released from the WWE on February 4, 2008. 

On the June 19, 2014 episode on "Impact Wrestling", Lashley defeated Eric Young to win his first TNA World Heavyweight Championship. Lashley returned to WWE on April 8, 2018 edition of "Raw".





Newry

Newry () is a city in Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom. It is partly in County Armagh and partly in County Down. It is the eighth largest city in Ireland. 27,430 people live in the city. A picture of a local bridge is on some British pound coins.

 /njɚɹi/

Shizuka Arakawa

Shizuka Arakawa () is a figure skater from Japan. She went to the Olympics in 1998 for the first time at age 16. They were held in Nagano, Japan. She won the gold medal in single skating at the Olympics in 2006. That was the only medal for Japan at the 2006 Olympics. She also won the World Championships in 2004.


Ellipsis

Ellipsis is a term of punctuation marks with a row of three points (...). Its name comes from the ancient Greek word "ἔλλειψις" (omission/falling short). Notice that the three dots are not spaced as full points: they are a separate special typographic sign.

Depending on context and place in a sentence, ellipses can indicate an unfinished thought, a leading statement, a slight pause, a mysterious or echoing voice, or a nervous or awkward silence. An ellipsis can be used to trail off into silence—for example: "But I thought he was..."


When text is quoted from a book or a newspaper, it stands for words that have been cut out to save space in a page. For example:

When speaking, it can be referred to as "dot-dot-dot".

In mathematics, different symbols for ellipsis are used to a similar effect. These include the horizontal ellipsis symbols formula_1 and formula_2, along with vertical ellipsis symbols such as formula_3 and formula_4 .



Mamoudzou

Mamoudzou is the capital of the French department of Mayotte. It is off the coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean. Mamoudzou is largest commune (municipality) of Mayotte. It has a population of 45,485.

Mamoudzou is a part of France on Grande-Terre (or Mahoré), the main island of Mayotte. The former capital of Mayotte was Dzaoudzi, on the small island of Petite-Terre (or Pamanzi). Mamoudzou was chosen as the capital in 1977.

Moroni, Comoros

Moroni (Arabic: موروني) is the capital of the Comoros. It is the largest city in the country. Moroni replaced Dzaoudzi as the capital in 1962. The city has a population of about 60,200 people.

The city is located on the western coast of Grande Comore island. Moroni is served by the "Prince Said Ibrahim International Airport". There is also a harbour which has ship which go between the African mainland and the islands in the Comoros archipelago, as well as Madagascar and other Indian ocean islands.
Moroni became the capital of Comoros in 1958.

Porto-Novo

Porto-Novo (also known as Hogbonou and Adjacé) is the capital of the West African country of Benin. The city has a population of 223,552 people Porto-Nova is a port on an inlet of the Gulf of Guinea, in the southeastern part of the country. Porto-Novo is Benin's second largest city. The city of Cotonou is larger and more important, culturally and politically. The region around Porto-Novo produces palm oil, cotton and kapok. Petroleum was found off the coast of the city in the 1990s. It has become an important export of the city.


Another place of interest is a Brazilian-style church which is now a mosque. "Stade Municipale" and "Stade Charles de Gaulle", or Charles de Gaulle Stadium, are the largest football stadiums in the city.


Praia

Praia is the capital of the island nation of Cape Verde. It lies on Santiago island in the Sotavento archipelago. The city has, in 2010, a population of 127,832. Praia is Cape Verde's largest city. It is also the commercial center of the country. The name Praia means "beach" in Portuguese.

Praia has a port that transports coffee, sugar cane, and tropical fruits. Praia also has a fishing industry. The city is home to one of the nation's two international airports. There are resort beaches nearby.

Some of the interesting things to see in Praia include:

Praia has many schools, churches, beaches, ports, and a university named after Jean Piaget.


Coptic Catholic Church

The Coptic Catholic Church is a church in full communion with the Pope in Rome instead of the Pope of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. The church has about 162,000 members (as of 2007). Most of the members are in Egypt. Coptic Catholics are seen as a schism from the Coptic Orthodox Church. They left that church in order to come into full communion with the Catholic Church. The current Coptic Catholic Patriarch of Alexandria is Archbishop Antonios Naguib.

In 1990, Coptic Catholic sources estimated that there were about 10,000 followers in countries other than Egypt. These followers are under the care of local Latin Rite bishops. There are Coptic Catholic parishes in: Paris, Montréal, New York City, Los Angeles, Sydney, and Melbourne.

In 1741, a Coptic bishop in Jerusalem named Anba Athanasius became a Catholic. Pope Benedict XIV appointed him Vicar Apostolic of the small community (approximately 2,000 people) who also became Catholics. Although Athanasius returned to the Coptic Orthodox Church later, a line of Catholic Vicars Apostolic continued after him.


Roberto Luongo

Roberto Luongo (born April 4, 1979) is a Canadian former ice hockey goaltender who played in the National Hockey League (NHL). Luongo retired from the NHL in 2019 after playing for 19 seasons. 

Roberto Luongo started playing in the NHL with the Florida Panthers. During the summer of 2006, Luongo was planning to stay in Florida. Instead, the general manager of the Panthers, Mike Keenan, sent him to the Vancouver Canucks, along with Lukas Krajicek, in return for Todd Bertuzzi, Alex Auld, and Bryan Allen. Luongo first said that he was sad because he was leaving so suddenly and Vancouver was very far away.

In the 2007 season, Luongo was in Vancouver. He was voted into the All-Star Game as the starting goaltender. The Canucks went to the playoffs. It was Luongo's first time to reach the playoffs. In one game, against the Dallas Stars, he made around 70 saves, which is very close to breaking records.

On March 4, 2014, a day before the NHL trade deadline, the Canucks traded Luongo along with prospect Steven Anthony to the Florida Panthers for goaltender Jacob Markström and centre Shawn Matthias. Luongo's salary will still be retained by the Canucks.

Robert De Niro

Robert Anthony De Niro (born August 17, 1943) is an American actor and producer. His most well-known movies include "Mean Streets" (1973), "The Godfather: Part II" (1974), "Taxi Driver" (1976), "The Deer Hunter" (1978), "Raging Bull" (1980) "Casino" (1995), "Jackie Brown" (1997), "Meet the Parents" (2000), "Silver Linings Playbook" (2012), "Joker" (2019) and "The Irishman" (2019).

Robert Anthony De Niro was born on August 17, 1943, in Greenwich Village, New York City, the son of Virginia Holton Admiral, a painter and poet, and Robert Henry De Niro, an abstract expressionist painter and sculptor. His father is half Irish and half Italian descent and His mother is of half German, with her other roots of English, French and Dutch descent.

De Niro was first married to Diahnne Abbott. They have a son, Raphael, a former actor who works in New York real estate. De Niro also adopted Abbott's daughter from a previous relationship, Drena.

De Niro has twin sons, Julian Henry and Aaron Kendrik. They were delivered by a surrogate mother in 1995. His partner was a long-term live-in relationship with former model Toukie Smith.

In 1997, De Niro married actress Grace Hightower. Their son Elliot was born in 1998. The couple split in 1999. The divorce was never finalized and in 2004 they renewed their vows. In December 2011, they had a daughter, Helen Grace. She was born through a surrogate.

In addition to his six children De Niro has three grandchildren.

In 2003, it was said that De Niro had prostate cancer. He went on to make a full recovery.



Erasmus (disambiguation)

Erasmus can refer to:


People:

In Rotterdam:

Other:

Internet Archive

Internet Archive (IA) is a non-profit organization based in San Francisco, California that has an on-line library and archive of Web and multimedia resources. The Internet Archive was founded by Brewster Kahle in 1996.

This archive includes "snapshots of the World Wide Web" (archived copies of pages, taken at various points in time), software, movies, books, and audio recordings. To make the books available on the Internet, they are first placed into special scanning machines by volunteers and employees of the library. These machines take very high quality pictures of the books' pages, and then images and text of the books are freely available on the Website. This process is called "digitization". The old collections of films and sound are digitized in this way too before being made available online. All of the original books, movies, records and so on are stored in a giant warehouse in California, just like normal libraries store their smaller collections of books or other records. This collection is called the Open Library and aims to create ""one web page for every book ever published."" It was created by computer programmer and activist, Aaron Swartz.

The Archive also purchases new electronic books and loans them out to readers just like any other normal library. These electronic books can be read by viewing the Website, on the reader's own computer or electronic reading device, and even in special reading areas inside the Archive where the tables have touchscreens and computers built into them.

To ensure the stability and endurance of the archive, The Internet Archive is mirrored at Bibliotheca Alexandrina in Egypt, the only library in the world with a mirror. The Internet Archive makes the collections available at no cost to researchers, historians, and scholars. The Internet Archive is a member of the American Library Association and is officially recognized by the State of California as a library.



Archive

An archive is a collection of records. The term is also used for the location in which these records are kept. Archives are made up of records which have been created during the course of an individual or organization's life. In general, an archive consists of records which have been selected for permanent or long-term preservation. Records, which may be in any media, are normally unpublished, unlike books and other publications. Archives may also be generated by large organisations such as corporations and governments. Archives are different from libraries in that archives hold records which are unique. Archives can be described as holding information "by-products" of activities, while libraries hold specifically authored information "products". The word 'archives' is the correct terminology, whereas 'archive' as a noun or a verb is related to computer science.

A person who works in archives is called an archivist. The study and practice of organizing, preserving, and providing access to information and materials in archives is called archival science.



Confirmation (Christianity)

In Christianity, babies might be baptised when they were young. When that baby grows to an adult, confirmation is used to make sure that the adult agrees with the promise to be a Christian, made when they were baptised. Usually in an Anglican church, people can only take their first Holy Communion if they do the confirmation before.

My-Otome

My-Otome (舞-乙HiME, Mai-Otome) is an anime made by the Sunrise Inc.. This is similar to "My-HiME", as "My-Otome" has the same characters, but even they have different personalities.

In the future, people live in planet Earl. Machines called nanomachines still keep the technology from the past. Nanomachines are used to give power to Otomes (Girls), who train in a school called Garderobe academy. The Garderobe academy train Otomes to become Meister Otomes (Dancing Star Girls), who protect their Masters - usually royal people of different kingdoms in Earl.

A woman called Rena Searrs is an Otome, who had lost her powers because of having a baby. She fights to protect her Master, a king from Windbloom, and hangs her necklace to the daughter of the king, floating her away in a casket at a river.

14 years later, Arika Yumemiya goes to Garderobe to become an Otome like her mother, who she does not know very much about. She enters the school and when she finds many things which disturb her from being an Otome because of her past, she tries to bear it with her cheerfulness. This story is about how Arika will begin to understand the meaning of being an Otome and how she will save the world from the legendary Harmonium's power.

This is the list of My-Otome's fictional words or phrases.

Otomes (Girls) are powerful girls of Earl, a future planet. Otomes are given money for 100 soldiers, because they are as strong as 100 soldiers put together. They train in a school called Garderobe, and when they graduate, they become Meisters (Dancing Star Girls). Otomes can only materialise when their master kisses their earring.

Otomes can also become one of the Five Pillars, who do not need masters to materialise.

When a royal person makes a contract with an otome, he or she becomes the master of the otome. Otomes can only materialise if the Master kisses them. The Master has to share a life with his or her otome, so when the otome dies, the Master dies, and when the Master dies, the otome dies.

The Five Pillars are the five otomes who use the Shinsou, so they do not need a master.

The Shinsou is a source who makes the Five Pillars materialise. There is only one Shinsou.

A Nanomachine is a machine from the past which puts a Robe inside the otomes' bodies, so that the Robe shows when they materialise. An earring connects to the Nanomachines. But the Nanomachine has a weakness to males semen. This means that if an otome has sex with a male she will not be able to materialise any more, and will stop becoming otomes, because she lost her power.

When a Master kisses an otome's earring, the otome can materialise because the Nanomachine absorbs the heat from the Master's lips, absorbing the Master's power. This is why a Master must share a life with the otome.

Nano means small, so Nanomachine means a machine which puts things into the body's small cells.

A gem is a jewel which the Master and otome can use to make a contract with each other. There are two same gems: one for the Master on his or her ring and one for the otome, for her earring. From then on, the earring on the otomes are kissed by their Masters to materialise. Stronger Otome's can also kiss there gem to give them permission to Materialise.

"Material" means an object, and "materialise" means that a hidden object has shown itself. In My-Otome, materialising is when the Robe (Combat Suit) inside the Otomes are released, so that they can fight.

A Slave Monster is an evil robot which is controlled by a Slave Master.

Like a Master, a Slave Master shares a life with its protector. Instead of otomes, they have a Slave Monster and they do not need a contract to materialise them, as Slave Monsters do not materialise. The Slave Master has to call the Slave Monster by using the Slave Crystal and give a pledge to the God of Wisdom, that they believe in his wisdom, and to call out a loyal slave for them. A Slave Master must always listen to the Slave leader, who is John Smith in My-Otome.

A Slave Crystal is a diamond-shaped crystal. To call out a Slave Monster, a Slave Master must put blood into the crystal by pushing his or her thumb to the crystal and pledging.

A harmonium is a musical instrument which opens up only for a protector, creator or a sword. Inside is a piano which can only be played when all the three conditions stepped onto its staircase. The piano makes the players have anything they desire or want to have.


Difference

Difference can mean more than one thing.


Personality (disambiguation)

Personality might mean:


Royalty

Royalty could mean:

Osprey

An osprey is a type of fish-eating bird. They are also known as 'fish hawk', 'sea hawk', and 'fish eagle'. It is a large bird measuring up to 60 cm (24 in) long from beak to tail. It has dark brown wings.

The osprey weighs 1.4–2 kg (3.0–4.4 lb) and is 52–60 cm (20–24 in) long with a 150–180 cm (5–6 ft) wingspan (the distance between the right wingtip and left wingtip when they are spread out). The back of the bird is brown and the belly is white. The head is white with a dark stripe across the eyes. The eyes are golden to brown and the beak (the mouth of a bird) is black. The legs and feet are white with black talons (nails of a bird). 

The osprey has a short tail and long, narrow wings. Males and females look similar, but males are often paler. In flight, the osprey raises its wings in an arch shape, making it look like a gull.

Scotland is typical osprey habitat with lots of trees and lakes (called 'lochs'). Because of egg thieves and hunting, only two pairs of ospreys were left there in 1967. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds began to protect the nests. Ospreys have returned every year to the protected nest at Loch Garten. More than 1.5 million people have been to see them. 

The number of ospreys in Scotland has increased a lot, but the population has been slow to spread. This is because ospreys often return to breed near to the place where they hatched. This has been shown in studies in the USA and Sweden.

Thought

Thought is the operation of the brain in conscious activity. It may or may not be goal-directed, aimed at solving specific problems. It is not the only way brains operate. Behaviour may occur as a result of instinct, and the adaptive unconscious may solve problems without a person being aware.

Other animals can use their brains to solve problems, but there is no way of telling whether they do so consciously. Thought is investigated by four or five academic disciplines, each in its own way. The disciplines include psychology, philosophy, biology, physiology, psychoanalysis and sociology.

Philosophy of mind is a branch of philosophy that studies the nature of the mind, mental events, functions, properties, and consciousness. The mind-body problem, i.e. the relationship of the mind to the body, especially the brain, is a central issue in philosophy of mind.

The mind-body problem has to do with the explanation of the relationship that exists between minds, or mental processes, and bodily states or processes. The main aim of philosophers working in this area is to determine the nature of the mind and mental states/processes, and how—or even if—minds are affected by and can affect the body.

Our perceptual experiences depend on stimuli which arrive at our various sensory organs from the external world and these stimuli cause changes in our mental states, ultimately causing us to feel a sensation, which may be pleasant or unpleasant. Someone's desire for a hat, for example, will tend to cause that person to move his or her body in a specific manner and in a specific direction to obtain what he or she wants. The question, then, is how it can be possible for conscious experiences to arise out of a lump of gray matter endowed with nothing but electrochemical properties. A related problem is to explain how someone's beliefs and desires can cause that individual's neurons to fire and his muscles to contract in exactly the correct manner. These comprise some of the puzzles that have confronted epistemologists and philosophers of mind from at least the time of René Descartes.



Dauria (movie)

Dauria is a Russian 1971 historical action/drama directed by Viktor Tregubovich. Adapted from the novel of the same name by Konstantin Sedykh.

The Epic scope and intense battle scenes won wide praise in Russia.

Russian Cossacks in Siberia live in their village like one big family. Young Cossack Roman Ulybin is in love with a beautiful girl. Roman cannot marry the beauty, because his father has no money.

After the Communist revolution in Russia, people suffer more. Traditional life ends in chaos and crime. Communism makes no happy end.



Petr Shelokhonov

Petr (Peter) Shelokhonov (August 15, 1929 in Poland - September 15 1999, St. Petersburg, Russia) was a Russian film and stage actor and director. He played over 90 roles in movies and on television. He also played over 100 roles on stage. Petr Shelokhonov received the title of Honorable Actor of Russia in 1979.

Petr Shelokhonov was of Ukrainian, Lithuanian, Belarusian and Polish ancestry. He survived Nazi occupation during World War II. In the war, Petr Shelokhonov was wounded by gunshot in his face, but the scar in the face did not stop him from becoming an actor.

Petr Shelokhonov joined the partisans resistance. He made his own puppet theater in 1943 and performed parodies of Adolf Hitler. In 1945, he became a piano student at the Kiev Conservatory of Music. In the 1950s, he moved to the Siberian city of Irkutsk. There, he graduated from Irkutsk Drama School. Then he worked in Moscow and St. Petersburg, Russia, and also in Odesa and Kyiv, Ukraine.

Petr Shelokhonov was a member of five theatre companies in Russia. He also played roles in international productions on stage, in movies, and on television. His acting career lasted over 50 years and he played over 180 various characters ranging from Shakespearean prince Hamlet to Soviet dictator Lenin.

In 1989 - 1992, he played the leading role (Sam) in "Photo Finish", written and directed by Peter Ustinov. In 1993-4, he starred as Victor Velasco in Neil Simon's play "Barefoot in the Park".

In 1997, Petr Shelokhonov played a supporting role in Leo Tolstoy's "Anna Karenina", starring Sophie Marceau. Sean Bean. Alfred Molina, and James Fox.

Petr Shelokhonov died on 15 September 1999 from cardiac arrest in St. Petersburg, aged 70.






Skin cream

Skin cream could mean:

Conakry

Conakry or Konakry is the capital and largest city of Guinea. The city is a port on the Atlantic Ocean. The population of Conakry is about 2 million people.

Conakry was first settled on Tombo Island. It later spread to the Kaloum Peninsula. The city was founded after Britain gave the island to France in 1887. It became the capital of French Guinea in about 1904.

Conakry is Guinea's largest city and its administrative, communications, and economic center. The main part of the city's economy deals with the port. The port has up to date facilities for handling and storing cargo. It is used for transporting alumina and bananas. Items created in Conakry include food products and materials used for building houses.

Things to see in the city include the Guinea National Museum, several markets, the Guinea Palais du Peuple (the People's Palace), Conakry Grand Mosque and the nearby Iles de Los.

The city is noted for its botanical garden. The Polytechnical Institute of Conakry is also located in Conakry.

Cotonou

Cotonou is the economy capital of Benin. It is the largest city in that country. The city officially has 761,137 people, but it is thought that the actual number of people living in the city may be as high as 1.2 million. Many of the government and diplomatic services of Benin are in Cotonou. Because of this, the city is Benin's de facto capital, even though the official capital is Porto-Novo.

The city is best known as a major port because of the Autonomous Port of Cotonou. It is also home to an airport and a railway between it and Parakou. Other features of Cotonou include Cotonou Friendship Stadium, Cotonou Cathedral, Cotonou Central Mosque and the 20-hectare Dantokpa Market. The National University of Benin is in Cotonou.

The name 'Cotonou' means 'the mouth of the river of death' in the Fon language. At the beginning of the 19th century, Cotonou (then spelled Kotonou) was a small fishing village. The village was a part of the Kingdom of Dahomey. In 1851, the French made a treaty with the Dahomean King Ghezo. It let them build a place to trade at Cotonou. During the reign of Glele (1858-89), who ruled after Ghezo, the area was given to France by a treaty signed on May 19, 1868. In 1883, the French navy was at the city to stop the British from taking over the area. After Glele's death in 1889, his son Behanzin tried to challenge the treaty but he failed.

Dodoma

Dodoma City is the capital city of Tanzania. It is the third biggest city in the country. The city is also the capital of the Dodoma region. The city has a population of 410,956 people. The name Dodoma means "It has sunk".

During German colonial rule in East Africa, the town of Dodoma was founded at the same time as the creation of the Tanzanian central railway. The British took over the city after World War I. Dodoma became an administrative center for the region until the independence of Tanzania in 1964. In 1973, plans were made to move the capital from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma. Tanzania's National Assembly moved there the next year. Many government offices are still in Dar es Salaam.


N'Djamena

N'Djamena is the capital of Chad. It is the largest city in the country. The city is a port on the Chari River. N'Djamena is also a special statute region. It is a regional market for livestock, salt, dates, and grains. Meat processing is the main industry. N'Djamena has a population of 721,000 people.

Attractions in the city include the Chad National Museum, a cathedral and several mosques. Religiously the city is very mixed, although many of the people there are Islamic . N'Djamena has a university, schools of administration and veterinary medicine, and the American International School of N'Djamena. N'Djamena International Airport is located just outside the city.

N'Djamena was founded as Fort-Lamy by the French commander Émile Gentil on May 29 1900. It was named after Amédée-François Lamy. He was an army officer who had been killed in the Battle of Kousséri a few days earlier. The name was changed to N'Djamena (taken from the Arab name "Niǧāmīnā", meaning ""place of rest"") by the President François Tombalbaye on April 6, 1973.

The city was badly damaged during the Chadian Civil War, in 1979 and again in 1980. On April 13, 2006, the United Front for Democratic Change attacked the city but the attack failed.


Development

Development has meaning in several contexts:












San Jose Sharks

The San Jose Sharks are an ice hockey team that plays in the National Hockey League (NHL). The team is based in San Jose, California and was founded on May 9th, 1990. It started playing in the NHL in autumn 1991. The team colours are pacific teal, grey, burnt orange and black. Because of this it is often called ""Team Teal"".

The Sharks host their games at SAP Center at San Jose and are coached by Bob Boughner. Before that, Todd McLellan was their coach from 2008 to 2015, and Peter DeBoer was their head coach from 2016 to 2020. Some famous players who played for the Sharks include Joe Pavelski, Joe Thornton, Jonathan Cheechoo, Rob Blake, Evgeni Nabokov, Dan Boyle, Marc-Édouard Vlasic, and Patrick Marleau.

Doug Wilson served as their general manager from 2003 to 2022.

The Sharks won their first ever Presidents' Trophy in the 2008–09 season, but would end up losing in 6 games to their rival, the Anaheim Ducks. 

In the 2014 playoffs, the Sharks took on their other rival, the Los Angeles Kings, in the first round of the playoffs. The Sharks won their first three games of the series to take a 3-0 series lead. Despite leading the series with 3 wins and 0 losses, the Sharks lost 4 straight games and became only the 4th team to blow a 3-0 series lead in the Stanley Cup playoffs. The Kings would go onto win the Stanley Cup that year.

On May 25, 2016, the San Jose Sharks went to their first Stanley Cup by beating the St. Louis Blues 5-2 in 6 games but however, on June 12, 2016, they lost to the Pittsburgh Penguins which was also in 6 games.


Bujumbura

Bujumbura is the former capital city of Burundi. The city is at the northeastern corner of Lake Tanganyika. It is the largest city in the country. The city is the administrative, communications, and economic center of Burundi. Bujumbura has a population of about 324,000 people. The city makes textiles, soap and other things. Bujumbura is Burundi's main port. It transports most of the country's main export, coffee, as well as cotton, animal skins, and tin ore.

The city center is a colonial town. It has a large market, the national stadium, a large mosque, and a cathedral. Museums in the city include the Burundi Museum of Life and the Burundi Geological Museum. Other things to see include the Rusizi National Park.

Ferries sail from Bujumbura to Kigoma in Tanzania. The city is also home to the Bujumbura International Airport and the University of Bujumbura.

Bujumbura grew from a small village after it became a military post in German East Africa in 1889 . After World War I, it was made the administrative center of the Belgian controlled Ruanda-Urundi. The city's name was changed from Usumbura to Bujumbura when Burundi became independent in 1962 . Since independence, Bujumbura has been the scene of much fighting between the country's two main ethnic groups, with Hutu militias fighting against the Burundi army which has many Tutsi people in it.


Stem

Stem may refer to:


Stem (music)

Stems can refer to two things in music, relating to music notation and production.

Stems are the lines which extend from the notehead. Stems may point up or down. Different-facing stems indicate the voice for polyphonic music written on the same staff. For single-note melodies, the stems usually point down for notes on the middle line or higher, and up for those below. If the stem points up from a notehead, the stem starts at the right-hand side of the note, but if it points down, it starts from the left. The exception to this rule is when a chord contains a second, in which case the stem runs between the two notes, the higher being placed on the left of the stem and the lower on the right. The length of a stem is usually that of an octave on the staff, going to either an octave higher or lower than the notehead, depending on which way the stem is pointing.

Stems are the individual parts of a mix, separately saved (usually to disc) for the purposes of use in a remix.

Hope

Hope is a confidence in something wanted. It can also mean:

Famous people with Hope as a first name:








Corn flakes

Corn flakes are a breakfast cereal, normally served with milk. It is made by combining cooked corn along with sugar, vitamins and minerals. The dough is rolled and toasted to make the flakes. Corn flakes are marketed as a popular breakfast meal. There are many brands that make corn flakes but a couple are Raisin Brand, and Frosted Flakes.

Frosted Flakes

Frosted Flakes (North American countries) or Frosties (UK, Commonwealth of Nations and EU countries) is a cereal like Corn Flakes from Kellogg's, but coated with frosted sugar. Frosted Flakes are also available with apple pieces, banana pieces or coated in chocolate. In 2004, Kellogg's introduced a 1/3 Less Sugar recipe.

Tony the Tiger has been the mascot in Frosted Flakes since it was first introduced in 1952 as Sugar Frosted Flakes (the word "sugar" was dropped in the mid-1970s), and he is known for saying the cereal's slogan: ""They're grrreat!"". Tony the Tiger was originally voiced by Thurl Ravenscroft, who continued providing his voice until his death in 2005. The character is currently voiced by former professional wrestling play-by-play announcer Lee Marshall, starting in January 2006.

This cereal has had many taglines, but the classic, "They're grrreat!" has always been used along with the others.



Aqua Teen Hunger Force

Aqua Teen Hunger Force is an American animated comedy television series that is shown on Adult Swim, and originally Cartoon Network. The series is about three talking food items and their next door neighbor who live in New Jersey. In each 11 minute episode, the Aqua Teens often become part of some very unusual story that often involves one or more characters who often come on the show. The humor of the show is very unusual and some people do not understand it.



Dave Willis is the only cast member to appear in every episode.Dana Snyder and Carey Means have been absent for one episode.C. Martin Croker is only a main cast member on the show's first two seasons. His only other appearance was on a season 7 episode.


In 2007 an 85-minute movie was released which is called "Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters". The movie is about the characters trying to put an exercise machine together. The movie has special appearances by Neil Peart of the band Rush, Chris Kattan, Fred Armisen, Tina Fey, and Mastadon. The movie also shows the fourth Aqua Teen, a chicken nuggett named Chicken Bittle, voiced by Bruce Campbell. The movie lost money because some light-up advertising devices caused a bomb scare in Boston.

Cowley, Wyoming

Cowley is a town in the American state of Wyoming. It is in Big Horn County in northern Wyoming. The mayor of Cowley is Roland Simmons.

The town of Cowley was settled by a group of Mormon followers in Wyoming's Big Horn Basin. The town was named for Matthias F. Cowley, one of the Apostles of the Mormon church at the time. The first group of Mormons got to the area May 2, 1900. When they got there, they started building the Sidon Canal to bring water to the town from the Shoshone River. The Canal was over 30 miles long. They finished building it in 1904.

By the end of 1900 there were about 18 log houses built in the area. The first school was opened in a log house in January 1901. There were about 24-30 students.

On September 26, 1910, the Big Horn Academy was opened in Cowley. It was the area's first High School. The first class to be graduated from the Big Horn Academy was the class of 1912. It had 13 students.

A new stone building was made for the Big Horn Academy in 1916. In 1925 the name was changed to the Cowley High School. The mascot of the school was the Jaguars. The Cowley High School remained in the Big Horn Academy building until 1983, when the last class was graduated from Cowley High School. There were only six students in the class of 1983. Because of the small number of students, the school in Cowley was closed. Beginning in 1984, the town's students began attending the consolidated Rocky Mountain High School in Byron, Wyoming.

Student from Cowley attend school at:

Big Horn County, Wyoming

Big Horn County is a county in Northern Wyoming. The county seat is Basin. The largest city is Lovell.




Byron, Wyoming

Byron is a town in the American state of Wyoming. It part of Big Horn County. At the 2010 census, 593 people lived in Byron. 

In high school, students go to Rocky Mountain High School in Byron. Middle School students go to Rocky Mountain Middle School in Deaver and elementary school students attend Rocky Mountain Elementary School in Cowley. 

The town has an area of 0.9 mi². 0.1 mi² of it (5.62%) is water.

Fort Bragg, California

Fort Bragg is a small city in California's Mendocino County. The population was 6,983 at the 2020 census. Fort Bragg is located on the Pacific Coast Highway, California Rte-1. A US Army officer named it for one of his old commanding officers, Braxton Bragg (1817–1876) who was a career U.S. Army officer. He was later a general in the Confederate States Army. Because of this, the town shares a name with Fort Bragg, North Carolina, and they are named for the same man.

Mendocino County, California

Mendocino County is a county in Northern California. The county seat is in Ukiah.

Towns in Mendocino County include:

Brigham Young University

Brigham Young University (BYU) is an American university. It is named after the second Latter-day Saints prophet, Brigham Young. The school is in Provo, Utah. Their team colors are royal blue and white. Their mascot is the cougar. Their rivals are University of Utah.
Brigham Young University (BYU) is often called “The Y” and is a private research university. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) owns and runs the school. It is the biggest church school and third biggest private university in the United States with 33,511 students. About 99 percent of the students are part of the LDS Church, and 32% of them are from Utah. BYU students have to live an honor code, a set of rules on behavior. They must be honest in their work, follow dress rules, have no sex outside of marriage, and not take illegal drugs or drink alcohol. 66% of students (88 percent of men, 39 percent of women) start school late or take a break from school to be Mormon missionaries. It is cheaper to study at BYU than at other private universities because most of the cost of attending BYU is paid for by the LDS church.

BYU has many topics to study. This includes liberal arts, engineering, agriculture, management, physical science and mathematical sciences, nursing, and law. The university is grouped into 11 smaller parts that create their own rules on how to be allowed to study a topic. The university also has two satellite campuses(a small part of the campus that is far away from the rest of the campus), one in Jerusalem and one in Salt Lake City. The main university is run by the Church Educational System (CES), and also runs two other schools in Hawaii and Idaho. The main focus of the school is on undergraduate education, with 187 undergraduate majors and 110 undergraduate minors, but it also has 88 masters and 32 doctoral degree programs.

BYU’s sports teams compete in Division I of the NCAA and are known as the BYU Cougars. BYU joined the Big 12 Conference in July 2023 after 12 years as a member of the West Coast Conference (WCC). During the university's time in the WCC, which does not run a football league, the Cougars played in the top level of college football, Division I FBS, as an independent (not in a conference). The only BYU sport not sponsored by the Big 12 is men's volleyball; that team plays in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation. BYU’s sports teams have won 14 national championships.

Provo, Utah

Provo is an American city in the state of Utah. It is in Utah County and is east of Utah Lake. It lies to the west of high mountain peaks in the Wasatch Range. It is home to Brigham Young University. The city is the third largest city in the state. It has a population of 115,162 people, as of the 2020 census.

Lil' Kim

Kimberly Denise Jones, better known as Lil' Kim (born July 11, 1974), is an American rapper and actress. She released her first album, "Hard Core", in 1996. It was very successful. In 2001 she released a single with Christina Aguilera, Mýa, and Pink called "Lady Marmalade" for the "Moulin Rouge!" soundtrack which reached number 1 on the US" Billboard" Hot 100, making her the first female rapper to have a number 1 on the chart. It also reached number 1 in 13 other countries and won two MTV Video Music Awards and a Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals. Kim also rapped on Aguilera's 2003 single "Can't Hold Us Down". It was nominated for the 2004 Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals.

In 1994 Kim was a member of rap group Junior M.A.F.I.A.. The group released one album "Conspiracy" in 1995.
In 1999, Kim started her own record label, Queen Bee Entertainment. Kim left Junior M.A.F.I.A. in late 2001.

In 2003 Kim released a single called "Magic Stick". 50 Cent raps in the song. It reached number 2 in the Hot 100 and was also nominated for Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group at the Grammy Awards. In 2012 she did a tour of the United States, Return of the Queen Tour.

Kim released her first solo single in four years, "Looks Like Money" in 2013. On November, 29 (Black Friday), 2013 Kim is going to release a mixtape, "Hard Core 2K13". She released the first song from it, "Dead Gal Walking" Halloween 2013.

Kim has been in a fight with Nicki Minaj since "Pink Friday". 




Lovell, Wyoming

Lovell is a town in the American state of Wyoming. It is located in Big Horn County.

Lovell is the biggest town in the county. It is near the Shoshone river. It has an area of 1.1 mi². All of this area is land. At the 2010 census, it had 2,360 people living in it.

Basin, Wyoming

Basin is a town in the American state of Wyoming. It is the county seat of Big Horn County. It had 1,288 people living in it at the 2020 census.

Basin is near the Big Horn river. The town has an area of 2.0 mi². 0.04 mi² of it (1.47%) is water.

Lehi

Lehi is the first prophet listed in the Book of Mormon. He is the father of Nephi, Sam, Laman, Lemuel, Jacob, and Joseph. According to the Book of Mormon, Lehi was praying and was told in a dream to go to the wilderness with his family. They also believe that Judaism was the first real religion, but God left them, got into a human form and took on a different nation.

Otto, Wyoming

Otto is an unincorporated community in Big Horn County in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It was named for Otto Franc, a local cattle baron who ranched in the Big Horn Basin.

Saint-Denis, Réunion

Saint-Denis is the administrative capital ("préfecture") of the French controlled island of Réunion, in the Indian Ocean. The city is the largest town on the island. In 2004, it had a population of about 133,700 people.

Saint-Denis was founded by Étienne Régnault in 1669. The city became the capital of Réunion island in 1738.

The closest airport is Roland Garros Airport which is also the main international airport of Réunion. The Réunion Tram Train is expected to start being built in 2008. It stretches from the city to the airport and to Réunion's second city Saint-Paul.


Chen Shui-bian

Chen Shui-bian (, born October 12, 1950 in Guantian, Tainan, Taiwan) was the President of the Republic of China from 2000 to 2008. His term ended 55 years of Kuomintang rule in Taiwan. His nickname is "Ah-bian" (). Chen is a member of the Democratic Progressive Party.

Chen Shui-bian is raised from a poor family in southern Taiwan. He worked hard and studied at National Taiwan University. He passed a test and became a lawyer in his junior year. He graduated from university in 1974.

The Suite Life of Zack &amp; Cody

The Suite Life of Zack & Cody was a television series on Disney Channel. Because the series has already ended, it got followed by "The Suite Life on Deck".


Episode#1.01.Hotel Hangout (03/18/05)

Episode#1.02.The Fairest of Them All (03/18/05)

Episode#1.03.Maddie Checks In (03/25/05)

Episode#1.04.Hotel Inspector (04/01/05)

Episode#1.05.Grounded on the 23rd Floor (04/08/05)

Episode#1.06.The Prince & The Plunger (04/15/05)

Episode#1.07.Footloser (04/22/05)

Episode#1.08.A Prom Story (05/06/05)

Episode#1.09.Band in Boston (05/20/05)

Episode#1.10.Cody Goes to Camp (06/06/05)

Episode#1.11.To Catch a Thief (06/18/05)

Episode#1.12.It's a Mad, Mad, Mad Hotel (07/17/05)

Episode#1.13.Poor Little Rich Girl (07/22/05)

Episode#1.14.Cookin' With Romeo and Juliet (07/22/05)

Episode#1.15.Rumors (08/14/05)

Episode#1.16.Big Hair & Baseball (08/28/05)

Episode#1.17.Rock Star in the House (09/18/05)

Episode#1.18.Smart & Smarterer (10/10/05)

Episode#1.19.The Ghost of 613 (10/14/05)

Episode#1.20.Dad's Back (11/26/05)

Episode#1.21.Christmas at the Tipton (12/10/05)

Episode#1.22.Kisses & Basketball (01/01/06)

Episode#1.23.Pilot Your Own Life (01/06/06)

Episode#1.24.Crushed (01/13/2006)

Episode#1.25.Commercial Breaks (01/20/06)

Episode#1.26.Boston Holiday (01/27/06)

Episode#2.01.Odd Couples (02/03/06)

Episode#2.02.French 101 (02/10/06)

Episode#2.03.Day Care (02/17/06)

Episode#2.04.Heck's Kitchen (02/24/06)

Episode#2.05.Free Tippy (3/3/06)

Episode#2.06.Forever Plaid (03/20/06)

Episode#2.07.Election (03/21/06)

Episode#2.08.Moseby's Big Brother (3/22/06)

Episode#2.09.Books & Birdhouses (03/23/06)

Episode#2.10.Not So Sweet 16 (03/24/06)

Episode#2.11.Twins At The Tipton (03/31/06)

Episode#2.12.Neither a Borrower Nor a Speller Bee (04/14/06)

Episode#2.13.Bowling (04/28/06)

Episode#2.14.Kept Man (05/19/06)

Episode#2.15.The Suite Smell of Excess (06/02/06)

Episode#2.16.Going for the Gold (06/10/06)

Episode#2.17.Boston Tea Party (06/30/06)

Episode#2.18.Have A Nice Trip (07/07/06)

Episode#2.19.Ask Zack (07/15/06)

Episode#2.20.That's So Suite Life of Hannah Montana (07/28/06)

Episode#2.21.What the Hey (08/05/06)

Episode#2.22.A Midsummer's Nightmare (08/11/06)

Episode#2.23.Lost In Translation (08/19/06)

Episode#2.24.Volley Dad (09/08/06)

Episode#2.25.Loosely Ballroom (09/22/06)

Episode#2.26.Scary Movie (10/13/06)

Episode#2.27.Ah, Wilderness (11/10/06)

Episode#2.28.Birdman of Boston (11/24/06)

Episode#2.29.Nurse Zack (12/08/06)

Episode#2.30.Club Twin (01/07/07)

Episode#2.31.Risk It All (01/27/07)

Episode#2.32.Nugget Of History (02/23/07)

Episode#2.33.Miniature Golf (03/02/07)

Episode#2.34.Health & Fitness (03/16/07)

Episode#2.35.Back In The Game (4/6/07)

Episode#2.36.The Suite Life Goes Hollywood (1) (4/20/07)

Episode#2.37.The Suite Life Goes Hollywood (2) (4/20/07)

Episode#2.38.I Want My Mummy (05/18/07)

Episode#2.39.Aptitude (06/02/07)

Episode#3.01.Graduation (06/23/07)

Episode#3.02.Summer of Our Discontent (06/30/07)

Episode#3.03.Sink or Swim (07/8/07)

Episode#3.04.Super Twins (07/13/07)

Episode#3.05.Who's the Boss? (07/22/07)

Episode#3.06.Baggage (07/22/07)

Episode#3.07.Sleepover Suite (07/28/07)

Episode#3.08.The Arwin That Came To Dinner (08/05/07)

Episode#3.09.Lip Synchin' in the Rain (08/12/07)

Episode#3.10.First Day of High School (08/26/07)

Episode#3.11.Of Clocks and Contracts (9/15/07)

Episode#3.12.Arwinstein (10/06/07)

Episode#3.13.Team Tipton (10/27/07)

Episode#3.14.Orchestra (11/10/07)

Episode#3.15.A Tale of Two Houses (11/17/07)

Episode#3.16.Tiptonline (12/15/07)

Episode#3.17.Foiled Again (02/01/08)

Episode#3.18.Romancing the Phone (04/19/08)

Episode#3.19.Benchwarmers (07/19/08)

Episode#3.20.Doin' Time in Suite 2330 (08/09/08)

Episode#3.21.Let Us Entertain You (08/16/08)

Episode#3.22.Mr. Tipton Comes to Visit (09/01/08)







Was released on DVD on June 17, 2001.



An Indian adaptation of the show, titled "The Suite Life of Karan & Kabir", premiered on Disney Channel India on April 8, 2012. It ran for two seasons and ended on January 19, 2014.

São Tomé

São Tomé is the capital city of São Tomé and Príncipe. It is the largest city in the country. The city has a population of 56,166 people. Its name is Portuguese for "Saint Thomas." São Tomé is important as a port. It is located on Ana Chaves Bay in the north east of São Tomé Island.

The city was founded by Portugal in 1485. It is centred on a sixteenth century cathedral. Another early building is Fort São Sebastião. It was built in 1575 and is now the São Tomé National Museum. In 1599, the city as well as the islands were captured by the Dutch for two days and again in 1641 for a year. São Tomé was the colony's capital until 1753. It has been the national capital since 1852.

São Tomé is known for its role in the forced conversion of Jews during the Inquisition. When King Manuel I of Portugal wanted to force the Jews to convert, he took away their children and had them sent to this remote island.

Features of the town include the Presidential Palace, the Fisherman's Church, and a cinema. The city is also home to two markets, a radio station, a hospital, and an international airport. São Tomé also serves as the center of the island's road and bus networks.


Everglades

The Everglades is a flat tropical river and mangrove swamp. It is in the southern part of Florida near the city of Miami. The Everglades usually has tropical river delta which runs slowly through a low-lying basin near sea level. There are many plants and many animals that live here. It is the only place in the world where crocodiles and alligators live together. It is a National Park and part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Being a national park in the U.S. state of Florida, it helps protect around 25 percent of the original Everglades. It is the largest subtropical forest in the United States. On average, around one million people visit it each year.

It is the third-largest national park in the lower 48 states after Death Valley and Yellowstone. It is an International Biosphere Reserve, a World Heritage Site, and a Wetland of International Importance. It is one of only three parks in the world to be on all three lists.

Unlike most national parks in the US, Everglades National Park was started to protect a weak ecosystem and its unique geographic feature. The Everglades are wetlands. It is created by a slow-moving river coming from Lake Okeechobee. It flows through the Kissimmee River to the southwest at about per day, to Florida Bay. 

The park protects a connected network of marshland and forest ecosystems. They are maintained by natural forces. There are thirty-six species of endangered and threatened living in the park. Some of them are: Florida panther, the American crocodile, and the West Indian manatee. 

The park protects the largest U.S. wilderness area east of the Mississippi River. It is the most significant breeding place for tropical wading birds in North America. It also has the largest mangrove ecosystem in the Western hemisphere. 

It is also home to more than 350 species of birds, 300 species of fresh and saltwater fish, 40 species of mammals, and 50 species of reptiles live within Everglades National Park.
All of South Florida's fresh water are kept in the Biscayne Aquifer. They are also recharged in the park. Only less than 50 percent of the Everglades water remain today. 

Between the 1940s and 2000s, the number of wading birds has become smaller. It has reached around 90 percent decrease from their original numbers . 

The diversion of water to South Florida's still-growing metropolitan areas is the number one threat for the park's inhabitants. 

In the 1950s and 1960s, of canals and levees, 150 gates and spillways, and 16 pumping stations were built to lead water towards the cities and away from the Everglades. Low levels of water leave many fishes vulnerable to reptiles and birds. As sawgrass dry, it can burn or die off. 

As a result, many apple snails and other animals that wading birds feed upon, are killed. Populations of birds have been dropping. 

In 2009, the South Florida Water Management District claimed that the number of wading birds across South Florida have increased by 335%. However, despite three years of reported higher numbers, "The Miami Herald" discovered the same year that populations of waders in the park decreased by 29%.


Lost (TV series)

Lost is an American television series about airplane crash survivors on a tropical island in the South Pacific. Most episodes showed events in the present combined with stories from a character's past or future. The show was created by J. J. Abrams, Damon Lindelof, and Jeffrey Lieber. It was mostly filmed in Oahu, Hawaii. The first episode was shown on September 22, 2004. Since then, a total of six seasons have been shown on television. The series is made by ABC Studios, Bad Robot Productions and Grass Skirt Productions. It plays on the ABC Network in the United States. Other television networks show the series in other countries. Because of its large cast and the cost of filming in Hawaii, the series was one of the most expensive on television.

"Lost" had an average of 15.5 million viewers per episode on ABC during its first year. It won many awards including the Emmy Award for outstanding drama series in 2005 and best American import at the British Academy Television Awards also in 2005.

"Lost" ended with its sixth season. The sixth season began in February 2010 and ended in May 2010.

The episodes of Season 1 were shown on television in the United States starting on September 22, 2004. There were 24 episodes, which were shown on Wednesday nights. After their plane crashes on an island, the survivors of Oceanic Flight 815 must work together to stay alive. The survivors find mysterious things including polar bears, an unseen monster, and the other people living on the island, known as the "Others." They also meet a Frenchwoman who has been on the island for 16 years and find a metal hatch (door) buried in the ground. Some of them try to leave the island on a raft.

Season 2 had 23 episodes and were shown in the United States and Canada on Wednesdays starting September 21, 2005. Most of the story is about the conflict between the survivors and the Others. The survivors go down into the hatch door and find a secret, underground building where a man named Desmond has been living for three years. They learn about the DHARMA Initiative, a group of scientists who built the hatch and many other buildings on the island. The characters meet a new group of survivors from the tail end of the crashed airplane. One of the group just pretends to be a crash survivor, he is a member of the Others in fact and he betrays the castaways.

Season 3 had 22 episodes that began airing in the United States and Canada on October 4, 2006 on Wednesdays at 9:00 pm. After a break, the show returned on February 7, 2007 and aired at 10:00 pm. The story continues 67 days after the crash. New crash survivors and Others are introduced. The crash survivors learn about the Others and their history on the island. A war between the Others and the survivors begins, and the survivors make contact with a rescue team.

Season 4 began airing January 31, 2008 and ended on May 29, 2008. When the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike began, only 8 of the planned 16 episodes had been filmed. After the writer's strike was resolved, only 5 of the remaining 8 episodes in season 4 were filmed. In this season, people from a ship called the "Kahana" come to the island. The new characters are not really a rescue team, and they put the crash survivors in danger. Later, six of the survivors escape the island. They become famous and are called the "Oceanic Six." The things they do after going back home are shown as "flashforwards," which are scenes showing the future.

Season 5 was shown in the United States and Canada from January 21, 2009 to May 13, 2009. This season follows two time lines. The first takes place on the island where the remaining survivors time travel through many time periods. The second shows the Oceanic Six trying to return to the island. Later in the season, most of the characters end up on the island in the year 1977. They join up with the DHARMA Initiative, a group of scientists who lived on the island. Some characters return to the island in 2007, where they meet Jacob, the leader of the Others.

Season 6 aired on February 2, 2010. It was the final season and it had 18 episodes. To keep the story a surprise, the producers of the series do not want any preview scenes to be shown before the season starts.

These characters have regular appearances on the show as of the sixth season.

These characters were regular characters at one point of the show and are now no longer shown or shown only in flashbacks.




Lost

Lost could mean:

In entertainment:

Western United States

The Western United States—commonly referred to as the American West or simply The West—traditionally refers to the westernmost states of the United States. As the United States has expanded westward since its founding, the definition of the West has changed over time. In the 18th and early 19th centuries the Appalachian Mountains were considered to be the boundary. Nowadays the Mississippi River is often referenced as the easternmost possible boundary of the West. This region is divided into Mountain States and Pacific States subregions. The Census Bureau defines the western United States as these states:


The "West" had played a large role in American history; the American Old West is an important part of America's folklore.

Monaco Grand Prix

The Monaco Grand Prix (Grand Prix de Monaco) is a Formula One race held each year on the Circuit de Monaco. Run since 1929, it is widely considered to be one of the most important and prestigious automobile races in the world alongside the Indianapolis 500 and the 24 Hours of Le Mans.

"Drivers in bold are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season."

"Teams in bold are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season."<br>
"A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship."<br>
"A yellow background indicates an event which was part of the pre-war European Championship."

"Manufacturers in bold are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season."<br>
"A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship."<br>
"A yellow background indicates an event which was part of the pre-war European Championship."
<nowiki>*</nowiki> Between 1998 and 2005 built by Ilmor, funded by Mercedes

<nowiki>**</nowiki> Built by Cosworth, funded by Ford

<nowiki>***</nowiki> Built by Porsche

"A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship."<br>
"A yellow background indicates an event which was part of the pre-war European Championship."
2020 Cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic 2021 Max Verstappen Red Bull-Honda 2022 Max Verstappen Red Bull-RBPT 2023 Max Verstappen Red Bull-Honda RBPT

Bangui

Bangui is the capital city of Central African Republic. It is the largest city in the country. The city has a population of 531,763 people. Most of the population of the Central African Republic lives in the western parts of the country, near Bangui.

The city was founded in 1889 in what was then the French colony Haut-Oubangui ('Upper Ubangi'). The colony was later renamed Oubangui-Chari and made part of French Equatorial Africa. The city grew around the French military post on the Ubangi river. Bangui served as an administration center for the colony and is now the administrative center of the CAR.

Much violence in Bangui came after the March 1981 elections. These elections took place after the French removed Jean-Bedel Bokassa from office and replaced him with David Dacko. People who did not like Dacko attacked Bangui and made Dacko leave the country. Andre Kolingba then formed the Comité Militaire pour le Redressement National.

About 200 Central African Republic soldiers mutinied in Bangui in May 1996. They wanted back pay and for dictator Patassé to be removed from control of the country. French soldiers in the country stopped them and returned Patassé to power. More than 50 people were killed during this time.

Bangui is on the northern banks of the Ubangi River. It is just below a series of rapids. The Congolese town of Zongo is on the opposite side of the river from Bangui. The city centre is near the river. It has a large triumphal arch, the Presidential Palace and the central market. North of the city lie rolling hills.

The Central African Republic is just north of the Equator. Because of this, the daily high temperatures rarely fall below the high 80s Fahrenheit. The rainy season lasts from May until October. Bangui, being in the south of the country and closest to the Equator, is slightly hotter and wetter than the northern parts of the country.

Bangui is an administrative, trade, and commercial center. Bangui makes textiles, food products, beer, shoes, and soap. The main exports are cotton, timber, coffee, and sisal. Unemployment in the city was near 23% as of 2001.

Bangui is a river port. It is served by Bangui M'Poko International Airport. The port handles the most of the country's trade with other countries. River ferries sail to Brazzaville and Zongo. Roads connect the city to Cameroon, Chad, and Sudan.

Several periodicals and three daily newspapers publish in Bangui. Other things to see in Bangui include Boganda Museum and Bokassa Palace.

Bangui is home to the University of Bangui. It was founded in 1970. The University of Bangui is the only non-agricultural college in the Central African Republic.

ITV

ITV (first known as Independent Television) is a public television broadcasting service in the United Kingdom. It was set up in 1954 by the Television Act 1954 provide competition to the BBC. 

The Television Act 1954 outlined the service that Independent Television would produce. It also created the Independent Television Authority to manage the ITV network and its transmitters that would be used by the ITV companies to produce a regional service. In 1969, color television started in some areas of the ITV network and by 1975, the entire ITV network was in color. 

In 1998, ITV2 launched as a channel. It was mainly promoted with ONdigital (renamed ITV Digital in 2001) and it's subscription service even though ITV2 was free to air.

In 2002, all franchises in England and Wales started using the ITV1 name.

In 2004, ITV plc launched ITV3 as a free to air channel, replacing Plus (originally Granada Plus before Granada and Carlton merged into ITV plc.).

In 2005, ITV plc launched ITV4. The channel was supposed to replace Men & Motors, the last channel of the Granada Sky Broadcasting deal that was finalised in 1996, but it would end up replacing the ITV News channel.

In 2009, ITV1 HD launched as a high definition channel on Freeview HD and 5 months later on other platforms.
Listed as they were originally named and as they are known now:



Burlington, Wyoming

Burlington is a town in Big Horn County, Wyoming, United States. It has 314 people living in it as of the 2020 census.

The town has an area of 1.0 mi². This area is all land.

Children from Burlington go to Burlington High School, Burlington Junior High, and Burlington Elementary.

Secularism

Secularism, also called Secularity, is the idea of something being not religious or not connected to a church or other religious organization. An example of this is the government, which is independent of any religion in many states. In some countries, such as Pakistan, England (though not the rest of the UK), Greece, Iran or Saudi Arabia, there is a state religion. In that case, the government follows the state religion. In contrast, India, South Africa or the United States have laws that religion and government should stay separate.

In a theocracy like the Vatican City and Iran, the priests of religion are the rulers of the country.


Jérémie Aliadière

Jérémie Aliadière (born 30 March 1983) is a French football player. He plays for Middlesbrough.

108||10||12||0||14||9||3||0||137||19
0||0||0||0||0||0||2||0||2||0
108||10||12||0||14||9||5||0||139||19

Walgreens

Walgreens is a pharmacy chain in the United States. It was founded in 1901 in Chicago. Its headquarters are in Deerfield, Illinois.

In the 1980s, Walgreens owned and operated a chain of casual family restaurants/pancake houses called Wag's. It was very similar to Denny's, IHOP and Golden Bear. In 1988, Walgreens sold most of Wag's to Marriott Corporation and by 1991 the chain was out of business.

On October 27, 2015, Walgreens announced that it would acquire another pharmacy chain, Rite Aid.

Cascade Volcanic Arc

The Cascade Volcanic Arc (also known as the Cascades or the Cascade Range) is a major range of volcanoes in southwestern British Columbia, Washington, Oregon, and northern California. 

The arc is central to the Cascade Range, a mountain range in the Pacific Northwest. It includes about 20 major volcanoes, among over 4,000 separate volcanic vents.

Twelve volcanoes in the arc are over 10,000 ft (3,000 m) in height, and the two highest, Mount Rainier and Mount Shasta, are over 14,000 ft (4,300 m). By volume, the two largest Cascade volcanoes are the broad shields of Medicine Lake Volcano and Newberry Volcano, which are about 145 mi³ (600 km³) and 108 mi³ (450 km³) respectively.

The volcanism in the arc began about 37 million years ago, but most of the present-day Cascade volcanoes are less than 2 million years old. The most recent major catastrophic eruption in the arc was at Mount St. Helens on May 18, 1980.

The major volcanoes in the arc include Mount Silverthrone, Mount Meager, Mount Cayley, Mount Garibaldi, Mount Baker, Glacier Peak, Mount Rainier, Mount St. Helens, Mount Adams, Mount Hood, Mount Jefferson, Three Sisters, Broken Top, Mount Bachelor, Newberry Volcano, Mount Thielsen, Mount Mazama (Crater Lake), Mount McLoughlin, Medicine Lake Volcano, Mount Shasta, Mount Tehama and Lassen Peak.



Satoru Iwata

On July 11, 2015, Iwata died of bile duct cancer at age 55. Iwata was posthumously awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award at the 2015 Golden Joystick Awards and the 2016 DICE Awards.

Iwata was born and raised in Sapporo, Japan on December 6, 1959. His father was a municipal mayor.

Iwata got his first computer, a Commodore PET, in 1978. He took the machine apart, and he studied the machine because he wanted to understand it. The computer had a central processing unit (MOS 6502) similar to the one used by Nintendo for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). The NES was a gaming console for which he would later make games.

Iwata expressed interest in the creation of video games early on and during his high school years, began producing electronic games at his home. The several simple number games Iwata produced made use of an electronic calculator he shared with his schoolmates. Following high school, Iwata was admitted to the Tokyo Institute of Technology, where he majored in computer science. Tomohiko Uematsu, an engineering professor, said Iwata was very good at software programming. He said that Iwata could write programs faster and better than any of his other students. While attending the school, he did an unpaid internship at Commodore Japan. There, he helped the head engineer—Yash Terakura—with technical and software-development work. One of his main reasons for taking the job was to spend more time around computers and learn details of computers. Terakura would later be a mentor to Iwata. Terakura taught him about hardware engineering. Iwata and some of his friends rented an apartment in Akihabara. They formed a club where they would create and code games. Classmates living in nearby apartments called Iwata's room "Game Center Iwata". He would often show his games to the Seibu department store's computer department. By 1980, a group of employees there invited him to join their company, HAL Laboratory, Inc.

While attending the school, he worked part-time as a programmer for HAL Laboratory, Inc. HAL became the first company to make a license with Namco for developing games. He joined the company full-time after graduating in 1982. Iwata was its fifth employee and only programmer. Around the same time, Iwata's father was elected mayor of Muroran. Iwata's family did not agree with Iwata's career choice. His father did not talk to him for six months after Iwata joined HAL.

Iwata became the company's coordinator of software production in 1983. While he was coordinator, he helped HAL make a relationship with Nintendo so they would be able to makee games for the Nintendo Entertainment System. He went to Kyoto himself to ask for permission to work on games for the NES. Nintendo said yes. His first published game was "Joust" for the NES—a port of the 1982 arcade game. Other video games he worked on were "Balloon Fight", "NES Open Tournament Golf", "EarthBound", and the "Kirby" games. Nintendo contacted other developers to make "Open Tournament Golf"; however, all of them did not want to as they did not believe the large amount of data could be kept in an NES cartridge. Iwata said he could develop the game. It was very difficult for Iwata; he had to create his own data compression method in order to fit all 18 golf courses into the game. HHAL had to make parallax scrolling for "F-1 Race" because the NES hardware did not support it.

Because Iwata was good at programming, programmers and gamers started respecting him. He would often continue to work on weekends and holidays (Japanese holidays, New Year's Eve-Day, Christmas and Japanese Independence Day) because he wanted to. HAL was about to be bankrupt, so Iwata was promoted to president of HAL in 1993 when Nintendo's then-President, Hiroshi Yamauchi, asked him to be promoted. With Nintendo's help, Iwata helped turn the company around from its ¥1.5 billion debt and manage its finances. It took about 6 years. Iwata did not have much managing experience. Because of this, Iwata learned how to make himself better. He often read books about managing. He also asked for advice from others.

Although he was not part of Nintendo at the time, Iwata helped with developing "Pokémon Gold" and "Silver" by creating compression tools used for graphics in the games. While working as a go-between for Game Freak and Nintendo, he helped program "Pokémon Stadium" for the Nintendo 64. All he had to do was read the original coding in "Pokémon Red" and "Green" and porting the battle system into the new game in just one week. Tsunekazu Ishihara, the president of The Pokémon Company, said that Iwata was important in bringing "Pokémon" to Western markets. While being president of HAL, he created the plan for localization after reviewing the code for "Red" and "Green". They were released in the West two years after they were released in Japan. He also helped Masahiro Sakurai develop "Super Smash Bros." for the Nintendo 64.

In 2000, Iwata became the head of Nintendo's corporate planning division. He was also put on the board of directors. Over the next two years, he wanted to game development cheaper and shorter while making sure the quality was still good. During his first two years at Nintendo, the company saw profit increase 20 and 41 percent. Iwata's work helped do this. When Yamauchi, the company's president since 1949, retired on May 24, 2002, Iwata became Nintendo's fourth president. He was the first Nintendo president that was not in the Yamauchi family through blood or marriage. Yamauchi asked Iwata for one things: "that Nintendo have new ideas and create hardware that shows that ideal. And make software that has the same standard." Nintendo was a company that wanted individualism, with a policy created by Yamauchi to create new development positions when needed. However, this prevent good collaboration between departments.

When Iwata was promoted, Nintendo was still a profitable company. However, they were not doing as well as other console makers. The GameCube was selling poorly compared to competitors, with Sony's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft's Xbox outselling it. His presidency also happened when online gaming became popular. Nintendo had not started doing online gaming. He was careful about doing it, saying: "We're not against the idea of going online. We're just practical." He also created a relationship between Nintendo and Capcom that helped the GameCube. During an interview in 2002, Iwata said that he felt the gaming industry was becoming too exclusive. He wanted to make hardware and games that all people would want to play rather than focusing on good graphics.

One of the first things he did as president was to meet directly with the company's 40 department heads and 150 other employees. This was very different from Yamauchi; Yamauchi did not meet with employees often, and he usually had only one speech every year. Iwata was knew that just because he is president, that would not mean everyone would agree with him. He decided to talk to them on a personal level. If employees disagreed with his view, Iwata would suggest they follow their idea instead of his own. He said "creators only improve themselves if they take risks". Iwata also brought more data and science into the business part of the company. Yamauchi made decisions using intuition and experience, Iwata had ideas with a lot of data to convince people. Iwata also promoted Miyamoto, Genyo Takeda, Yoshihiro Mori, and Shinji Hatano to representative directors on the company's board of directors. Their positions had the same power as his own.

Following up on his 2002 interview, Iwata said there was a problem in the gaming market in his keynote speech at the 2003 Tokyo Game Show. During this speech, he thought about the history of the industry and that there was less interest in video games. Starting at the end of the 1990s, were fewer sales in the Japanese market. This continued into the early 2000s. Competition between Nintendo and Sony meant consoles were more focused on powerful hardware. However, the Nintendo 64 was too difficult for developers to make games. Because of this, software was not as good. Iwata asked for an analysis to be done. Nintendo decided that focusing on hardware was not the best way to promote video games. They decided to focus on software. In 2004, there was a big change within Nintendo. Iwata merged various departments created under Yamauchi. He wanted to have collaborative work throughout the company. He later created a "User Expansion Project" in 2005. Employees normally not related to game development would give ideas for new games.

In a March 2004 interview, Iwata said: "Games have come to a dead end." He said that developers wasted far too much time focusing on core gamers; he said that they would not make a profit if they did not make games for the normal game player. He also wanted to show that Nintendo, a "conservative" company, would become a big new creator of entertainment. Iwata created a "blue ocean" strategy to help Nintendo compete against the other console makers. Instead of competing against them about powerful hardware, Iwata decided to make interesting and entertaining hardware and games.

The Nintendo 3DS and Wii U were not as successful as the DS and Wii. Nintendo's finances became worse starting in 2010.

On July 11, 2015, Iwata died of bile duct cancer at age 55.


Lint (material)

Lint is a collection of clothing fibers and other materials usually on or around clothing.

Pocket lint is lint in the bottom of pockets. Pocket lint is usually made up of, but not limited to detached fabric, dust and paper scraps. In some contexts, pocket lint may also refer to random items in one's pocket.

Navel lint, also called belly button lint, belly button fluff or navel fluff, is an collection of fluffy fibres in one's navel.

Many people find that, at the beginning and end of the day, a small lump of fluff has appeared in the navel cavity. People have wondered why this happens for many years. In 2001, Dr. Karl Kruszelnicki of the University of Sydney, Australia, did a survey to find out why this happens. This is what he found out:


Dr. Kruszelnicki was awarded the Ig Nobel Prize for Interdisciplinary Research in 2002. The Ig Nobel Prize is given for "achievements that cannot or should not be repeated".

Austrian scientist Georg Steinhauser has also done research on the navel lint.


Lint

Lint could mean:

Lint could also mean:

Subtropical Storm Andrea (2007)

Subtropical Storm Andrea was now the first named storm and first subtropical cyclone of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. It was made on May 9; three weeks earlier than when the 2007 season was supposed to start. Andrea started from a non-tropical rain weather area off the coast of Daytona Beach, Florida. After staying close to the same area, on May 10, Andrea weakened into a subtropical depression after coming near to dry air and wind shear, and on the next day, the National Hurricane Center stopped looking at the storm and stopped giving out advisories.

The storm made bad surf along the beach areas from Florida to North Carolina. Andrea killed a total of 6 people not in a direct way, and 5 of those deaths happened when Andrea was extratropical before being a subtropical storm.

Andrea was the first tropical storm to form before the official start of the season since Tropical Storm Ana from the 2003 season which formed on April 2003. The storm was also the first named storm to form in the month of May since Tropical Storm Arlene from the 1981 season.

Subtropical Storm Andrea formed out of an area of a kind of strong non-tropical rainy place that slowly moved around the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of South Carolina. After becoming stronger a bit more and having the National Hurricane Center look at the storm closely, it was named "Andrea" on May 9 after the NHC discovered that the system had a closed low-level spinning and looked subtropical.

The storm did little more than stay near the same place before it became weak and turned into a subtropical depression after coming in contact with dry air and wind shear, both things which weaken tropical and subtropical cyclones. Andrea then died out off the coast of Florida on May 11 after collapsing because of bad weather conditions for the storm.

The extratropical system that would later be Andrea created high waves that made the National Weather Service give a High Surf Advisory at the coastlines between Florida and North Carolina. Almost right after the NHC called the storm Andrea, it also gave out Tropical Storm Watches to Florida and Georgia's coast. But the NHC those stopped giving out advisories after Andrea weakened into a depression. Also, a gale warning was given out for much of the South Carolina coastline.

Andrea was known to have killed a total of 6 people, while 5 of the people killed happened before Andrea became a subtropical storm. Also, the storm only made small damages between the Florida and the North Carolina coast.



Force field (technology)

A force field is a field of energy that usually blocks something. The force field is common in science fiction and fantasy stories. The ideal of a force field may be from the vector field, thought it resembled the "warding spells", the protective magic that was claimed to be used by shamans from long ago.

The plasma window is a real-live object that resembles the force field, it provides a separation between vacuum and gas. There is only one true ideal of creating a 'force shield': using an electric field to change the way metallic items move, although no power is known to be powerful enough to do this.


Shaman

A shaman is a kind of medicine man who practices shamanism. Shamans were believed to be able to talk to the spirit world, usually animal spirits. In some tribes shamanism is important such as the Yanomamis (a Venezuelan tribe in the Venezuelan forest).

A shaman was a person who had a special connection to the spiritual world.


Plasma window

A Plasma window is a field of plasma that fills an area of space. It is similar to a force field. The area is created by using magnetism to hold the plasma in place. With current technology, this area of space is quite small. It is in the shape of a flat planes inside a cylinder.

As plasma increases in temperature, it becomes thicker. At a high enough temperature, plasma is thick enough to separate a vacuum from normal atmosphere. Plasma does not stop radiation, such as lasers, from moving through it. Because of this, scientists can use a plasma window to create an area of vacuum while still letting radiation to move through it. This is needed because certain types of radiation can only be created in a vacuum, but scientists need to use the radiation on things that are found in a normal atmosphere.

The Plasma Window was created at Brookhaven National Laboratory by Ady Hershcovitch. It was patented in 1995. Other creations using the same idea as the plasma window include the Plasma Valve.

The Plasma Valve is related to a plasma window. It was created a year after the plasma window. The plasma Valve is a layer of gas inside a special shell. A ring around the shell holds a vacuum. A breach in the ring can be very bad but technology lets scientists shut off the machine in time before anything happens.

A plasma window is usually created at temperatures of 15,000 kelvin. The only limit to the window's size is the amount of energy needed to create it. A window needs 20 kW of energy for every inch in size.

Plasma windows will glow in different colors depending on the gas used to create the plasma.


Advance

Advance can also mean:



Bari

Bari (; Bari dialect: Bare; ; ) is a city in southern Italy. Bari is the capital of Bari Provence and of the Apulia Region. The city itself has a population of about 320,475, as of 2011, over 116 km, while the fast-growing urban area counts 653,028 inhabitants over 203 km. The metropolitan area has a million inhabitants. It is the second biggest city in southern Italy (after Naples).

During World War II there was an air raid on Bari. It was called the "Little Pearl Harbor".

Bari is divided into 5 municipalities ("Municipi"), constituted in 2014. The municipality is also divided into 17 official neighbourhoods ("quartieri").

Bari has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csa" in the Koeppen climate classification) with mild winters and hot, dry summers. Snowfall is rare.
During the summer of 2008 temperatures reached as high as .

Bari is twinned with:


Plautus

Titus Macchius Plautus (; c. 254 – 184 BC), known as Plautus, was a playwright in Ancient Rome. He was probably born in Sarsina (a city in Emilia-Romagna). His comedies are among the earliest works of Latin literature that have not been lost. He is also one of the earliest writers of musical theater.

Little is known about Plautus' early life. When Plautus was young, he built stages for plays. He also helped change the scenes. This might be when he started to love the theatre. People noticed that he was a talented actor. He called himself "Macchius" (a clownish character in popular farces), and "Plautus" (a term meaning "flat-footed"). Tradition also says that after some time, he made enough money to start working in the shipping business. He started something, but he was not successful. He then is said to have worked with his hands. He learned about Greek drama – particularly the New Comedy of Menander – in his free time. His studies led to his plays being shown. The plays were first shown between c. 205 BC and 184 BC. Plautus' comedies are mostly adaptations of Greek plays for Roman people. They are usually based on the works of the Greek playwrights.

H. M. Tolliver talks about the state gods of Rome and what their importance was in the Theatre of Plautus. These gods were an important part of the Romans' lives in Plautus’ time - people were supposed to worship them. Tolliver tells us that the gods were not exactly like the gods worshipped today. They were worshipped but also stood as a national symbol. State religion also served as a political tool. If the gods supported a bad leader, the people should too.

Plautus is sometimes accused of teaching the public indifference and mockery of the gods. Any character in his plays could be compared to a god. Whether to honour a character or to mock him, these references were demeaning to the gods. These references to the gods include a character comparing a mortal woman to a god, or saying he would rather be loved by a woman than by the gods. Pyrgopolynices from "Miles Gloriosus" (vs. 1265), in bragging about his long life, says he was born one day later than Jupiter. In "Pseudolus," Jupiter is compared to Ballio the pimp. It is not uncommon, either, for a character to scorn the gods. This can be seen in "Poenulus" and "Rudens".

Usually the only characters that scorn a god are those of low standing, like a pimp. Plautus perhaps does this to further demoralize the characters. Soldiers often bring ridicule among the gods. Young men, meant to represent the upper social class, often make fun of the gods in their remarks. Parasites, pimps, and courtesans often praise the gods with little ceremony. Tolliver argues that drama both reflects and foreshadows social change. It is likely that there was already much skepticism about the gods in Plautus’ time. Plautus did not make up or encourage irreverence to the gods, but used the ideas of his time. The state controlled stage productions, and Plautus’ plays would have been banned, if they were too risky.

Gnaeus Naevius was another Roman playwright of the late third century BC. He wrote tragedies and even founded the fabula praetexta (history plays), in which he dramatized historical events. He fought in the First Punic War and his birth was about the year 280 B.C.E. His first tragedy was written in 235 B.C.E. Plautus was living at the exact time as Naevius, but began writing later. Naevius is most famous for having been imprisoned by the Metelli and the Scipiones – two powerful families of the late third century. Naevius’ imprisonment and eventual exile is a case of state censorship. The fear of censorship may have influenced Plautus’ choice of what he wrote about and how he wrote about it.

While hundreds of plays have been said to be by Plautus, there are known to be 20 surviving plays. To be able to use a more diverse set of characters, he developed what is called a "stock character". He sometimes used typical situations where these characters could be used as well. He always used the same kinds of stock characters, especially if he could amuse the audience. As Walter Juniper wrote, “Everything, including artistic characterization and consistency of characterization, were sacrificed to humor, and character portrayal remained only where it was necessary for the success of the plot and humor to have a "persona" who stayed in character, and where the "persona" by his portrayal contributed to humor.”

For example, in " Miles Gloriosus", the “braggart soldier” Pyrgopolynices only shows his vain and immodest side in the first act, while the parasite Artotrogus exaggerates Pyrgopolynices’ achievements. Artotrogus creates more and more ludicrous claims that Pyrgopolynices agrees to without question. These two are perfect examples of the stock characters of the pompous soldier and the desperate parasite that appeared in his comedies.

In this way, Plautus could greatly simplify complex characters and give the audience what it wanted. “The audience to whose tastes Plautus catered was not interested in the character play,” instead it wanted humor that was easy to understand by many people. Stock setups offered such humor. Plautus used puns, he played with words, or he gave the words another meaning. Usually, the humorous characters in his plays are of low social standing. This helps the comedy overall, because lower-class characters were often taken less seriously, and had to be less careful what they said.



Mount Edziza

Mount Edziza is a dormant volcano in British Columbia, Canada.

The volcano is 38 km southeast of Telegraph Creek in an area of potentially active volcanos in the Stikine Volcanic Belt. It is a shield volcano that began erupting about 10 million years ago with continued activity until about 1,340 years ago.

Edziza is made up of a lot of cinder cones and blocky lava flows that still keep their first forms. This is the second biggest area of volcanic activity in the northern Stikine Volcanic Belt as well as in Canada. The complex includes the Mount Edziza Plateau, a big volcanic plateau (65 kilometers long and 20 kilometers wide) made of mostly basaltic lava flows with four big stratovolcanoes built on top of the plateau.

A lot of eruptions have happened in the last 10,000 years including: Desolation, Mess Lake, Snowshoe lava fields, Kana Cone, Eve Cone, Cinder Cliff, Icefall Cone, Ridge Cone, Williams Cone, and Walkout Creek. Many of the volcanic features in the volcanic complex are protected as part of Mount Edziza Provincal Park one of the bigger provincial parks in British Columbia.

Omar Khayyam

<nowiki> </nowiki>Omar Khayyām () or Omar Khayyam (b. May 18 1048 Nishapur, (Iran) – d. December 4 1131) was a Persian, mathematician, astronomer and poet.

In mathematics he contributed to the theory of equations, to the understanding of the parallel axiom, and possibly to the generalization of the binomial theorem. As an astronomer he contributed to a calendar reform when Sultan Malik-Shah decided that the calendar needed some adjusting. He is best known for his agnostic and sceptic poetry, largely because of the publication in 1859 of "Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam" by the translator Edward Fitzgerald.




Bobby Robson

Sir Robert William "Bobby" Robson (18 February 1933 – 31 July 2009) was an English association footballer and football team manager. As a player, he played almost 600 games and scored over 100 goals. He also played for the England national team. He scored four goals in 20 games for them.

Robson managed Fulham F.C. and Ipswich Town F.C.. (F.C. means football club). He then managed the England national football team for eight years, from 1982 to 1990. He led England to the semi-finals of the World Cup in 1990. He left England to manage other football teams in Europe. These included clubs from The Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. Robson came back to England to manage Newcastle United F.C. in 1999.

Robson was diagnosed with lung cancer in 2007. It was described as terminal. With no hope of recovery, two years later, he died in the year 2009. 

Robson was born on 18 February 1933 in Sacriston, County Durham. He was the fourth of five brothers. As a young child he often went to St James' Park with his father to watch Newcastle United F.C.

When he was only 15, Robson played football in a local team of boys aged 18. He became an apprentice electrician but still played football. In 1950, the Fulham F.C. manager, Bill Dodgin, Sr., visited Robson's home. He offered Robson a contract to play professional football. Robson signed the contract and moved to London.

Robson played in his first professional football game for Fulham F.C. in 1950. He spent six years at the club before moving to West Bromwich Albion for £25,000. He played for Albion for six years. During that time, he played in nearly 250 games, scoring over 50 goals. Albion said no when Robson asked for a bigger salary, and he moved back to Fulham. Fulham sold some important players after Robson came back to the team. This led Robson to think he would not win any trophies. He left Fulham in 1967 and joined the Vancouver Royals in Canada as both a player and a manager. However, he had to share the management role with someone else. Robson did not like this and moved back to England in 1968. He started to manage Fulham.

Robson was selected for England while at West Bromwich Albion. He played for England in the 1958 FIFA World Cup. He was selected for the 1962 FIFA World Cup. Due to injury in a friendly against Chile, Robson had to leave from the squad. In total, he played 20 times for his country.

Robson started his career as a manager at Fulham F.C. The team were relegated in his first season there. Robson was sacked the following season. In 1969 he became manager of Ipswich Town F.C. However he won no major competitions or trophies during his first four years in charge. In 1973 Ipswich won the Texaco Cup.

Over the next nine seasons in the First Division, only once did Ipswich finish lower than the sixth place. This was the 1977–78 season however the club then went on to win the FA Cup, beating Arsenal F.C. 1–0 at Wembley. Three years later, Robson led Ipswich to victory in the UEFA Cup. The club beat Dutch team AZ Alkmaar 5–4 over two games. Robson moved on to manage the England national football team in 1982.

Robson managed the England team 95 times, with 47 victories. In the 1986 FIFA World Cup in Mexico, he led the team to the quarter-finals where they lost to Argentina 2–1. Both Argentina goals were scored by Diego Maradona, including the famous "Hand of God" goal. Four years later, in the 1990 FIFA World Cup, Robson led England into the semi-finals. This time they lost to West Germany in a penalty shoot-out. After this World Cup, Robson's contract was not extended by the Football Association.

Robson joined Dutch club P.S.V. Eindhoven in 1990. They won the league in his first two seasons. However, they did not win any European competitions and in 1992 Robson lost his job. Robson joined Portuguese club Sporting Clube de Portugal in July 1992. He led them to third place in the league in his first season. Defeat in Europe meant Robson lost his job again, in December 1994. He was quickly offered the manager's job by F.C. Porto. He led the team to victory in the Portuguese Cup and they won the league for two seasons in a row.

In the summer of 1996, Robson became manager at FC Barcelona. In his short time at the club, he signed Ronaldo and led the club to win the Spanish Cup, Spanish Super Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup. The next season Robson took a more administrative position before going back to the Netherlands to manage P.S.V. Eindhoven for one season.

The next year, Robson went back to England to work for the Football Association. Soon after his return, Newcastle United F.C. manager Ruud Gullit left, and Robson took the manager's job at St James' Park. He managed the club until 2004 without winning any major trophies or competitions.

On 13 January 2006, Steve Staunton was selected as manager of the Republic of Ireland national team. Robson was named in a support role as "International Football Consultant". Because of health problems, Robson left this position on 17 November 2007.

Robson was married to his wife Elsie from 1955 until his death. They had three sons: Andrew, Paul and Mark.

In 1991, Robson was diagnosed with colorectal cancer, from which he recovered the following year. His ill health affected his work. While at Porto, for example, Robson suffered from malignant melanoma. This meant he missed the first months of the 1995–96 season. He had many operations, including one in 2006 for a brain tumour. 
On 17 October 2006, Robson was given the all-clear. He was set to complete his contract as consultant to the Irish team. In May 2007, he was diagnosed with lung cancer. He died of lung cancer on 31 July 2009 at his Durham home.

Robson was in some advertisements, including Carlsberg's "Best Pub Side" television advertisement. He also worked on ITV during the 2002 World Cup and the 2004 European Championship. He also wrote a weekly column for "The Mail on Sunday".

Bobby Robson was given several honours for his work in football. In 1990, after his eight years as England manager, he was awarded a CBE. In 2002, he was knighted. Both awards were for services to football. That year he was awarded the freedom of Newcastle upon Tyne. He also received the UEFA President's Award for 'services to football'. He was inducted into the English Football Hall of Fame in 2003. In 2005, Robson was made an Honorary Freeman of Newcastle. Robson said, in his autobiography, it was "the proudest moment of my life".

Robson also won the 1992 Football Writers' Association Tribute Award for an "outstanding contribution to the national game". In 2001 he was awarded the British Sports Writers' Association Pat Besford Trophy for Outstanding Achievement. In 2005, he received a lifetime achievement award from the Sports Coach UK Awards. He also received the Eircom International Personality of the Year in 2006. On 9 December 2007, Robson received the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Lifetime Achievement Award.

In May 2008 was the 30th anniversary celebrations of Ipswich Town's 1978 FA Cup win. During this, Robson was granted the Freedom of Ipswich by the Lady Mayor. On 8 December 2008, he was given the Freedom of the City of Durham.

England

Ipswich Town

PSV Eindhoven

Porto

Barcelona

Newcastle United

England

Individual


[[Category:England at the 1990 FIFA World Cup]
[[Category:1958 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:1962 FIFA World Cup players]]
Deomyinae

The subfamily Deomyinae consists of four genera of mouse-like rodents. These were placed in the subfamilies Murinae and Dendromurinae until very recently. They are sometimes called Acomyinae, particularly in references that predate the discovery that the link rat, "Deomys ferugineus", is part of the clade. Deomyinae is the older and more appropriate name.

Deomyines share no morphological characteristics that can be used to separate them from other muroids. Subtle aspects of the third upper molar have been suggested, though. This subfamily is united solely on the basis of shared genetic mutations. These conclusions have demonstrated good statistical support using nuclear and mitochondrial DNA, as well as DNA-DNA hybridization.

Because of the lack of physical characteristics that supportthis group, it is very possible that the subfamily as it is currently recognized could grow bigger. Many of the genera currently placed in Murinae or Dendromurinae have never been included in a molecular phylogenetic analysis. There are potential surprises awaiting when they are.

All genera are found in Africa, suggesting the deomyines may have originated there. The spiny mice, "Acomys" spp. are also found in Asia.

There are currently 4 genera and 36 species included in the Deomyinae.






Spiny mouse

The term spiny mouse refers to any species of rodent within the genus Acomys. They are usually called spiny mice in English. They look like mice of the genus "Mus". Spiny mice are small mammals with bare, scaled tails. Their coats have unusually stiff guard hairs that work the same way as the spines of a hedgehog. These stiff hairs are why they are called the "spiny mouse".

Even though they look like members of the genus "Mus", scientists thhink that the African spiny mice may be more closely related to gerbils than to common mice.

African spiny mice originated in the deserts of Africa. They are often kept as exotic pets in other parts of the world, particularly Western nations such as the United States. In the pet trade, they are commonly called Egyptian spiny mice or, more simply, spiny mice. Though these animals are like pet mice and rats, the tail of a spiny mouse is much more delicate. The spiny mouse should never be picked up by its tail and should be handled with care to avoid a degloving injury.

Because of their desert origin, spiny mice need warm temperatures and should be kept around 80 degrees Fahrenheit. These animals are very social and should always be housed in groups when possible. As spiny mice are prone to obesity (getting too fat), it is important to provide a big space and a complex environment to encourage exercise. They need constant attention and should NEVER be housed in a cage smaller than 4X4 ft.

Gestation length is between 38 and 42 days. Litters are normally 2 to 3 pups, but females may have up to 6 pups in a single litter. Other females within the social group may help in the birthing process and look after the pups. Pups are born with their eyes open and covered in fur. They will begin to leave the nesting area at about 3 days of age. Pups are weaned around 5 to 6 weeks and reach sexual maturity at about 6 to 9 weeks. A female can become pregnant at any time in the year and may have up to 12 litters in a year. Spiny mice can live for 4 to 5 years.


Anglicanism

Anglicanism is a denomination within Christianity. It is made up of the Church of England and the Anglican Communion (a group of Anglican churches from many other countries). The term Anglicanism includes those who have accepted the English Reformation as embodied in the Church of England or in the offshoot Churches in other countries that have followed closely to its doctrines and its organisation.

In the English Reformation, the English Church kept the early Catholic ministry of bishops, priests, deacons, and most of the doctrine and liturgy. The event that led to the Anglican Church was the outright rejection of the Pope. This meant they also rejected the Catholic Church as an organisation.

It is sometimes seen as being the middle way between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism. That is why it is not always thought of as Protestantism.

The term Anglican comes from the phrase "ecclesia anglicana". This is a Medieval Latin phrase dating to at least 1246. It means 'the English Church'. The noun Anglican is used to describe the people, institutions, churches, traditions and ideas developed by the state established Church of England and the Anglican Communion, a theologically broad and often divergent affiliation of thirty-eight provinces that are in communion with the Archbishop of Canterbury. 

Anglicans can have many different beliefs. For example, there are a range of beliefs about Holy Communion. Some Anglicans believe that the bread and wine becomes the actual Body and Blood of Christ. Other Anglicans think that Holy Communion is about remembering the life of Jesus Christ and his death on the Cross. The first ('High Church') is in the minority. It is similar to the belief of Roman Catholicism and Orthodoxy. The second (the majority 'Low Church') is like the belief of most Protestants. It is fundamentally a Protestant church because the Bible is the source of authority, not the Pope.

The name Anglican for this Church comes from the Latin word for English because the Church started in England. In the British Isles, Anglicanism has been the official or State religion in all parts at one time or another. Anglican Church leaders, and the State, worked together in what is called the alliance of Throne and Altar or Church and State. Together, they tried to make the Anglican denomination as broad and welcoming as possible to a wide range of Christian believers.

They did this to try to get as many citizens as they could to worship in the official church.

When Henry VIII wanted to divorce from Catherine of Aragon, the Pope refused to divorce him. As a result, King Henry split from the Roman Catholic Church and started the Church of England. The English Parliament, through the Act of Supremacy, declared King Henry VIII to be the "Supreme Head of the Church of England" in order to fulfill the "English desire to be independent from continental Europe religiously and politically." This act said that the king, not the pope was the head of the Church of England. With this act, Henry VIII was not only free to divorce his wife and remarry, he also made England free from the interference of the Pope and the Roman Catholic Church. 

Although now separate from Rome, the English Church, at this point in history, continued to maintain the Roman Catholic theology on many things, such as the sacraments. Over time the Church of England was reformed even more, in what is known as the English Reformation, which it gained a number of characteristics which has finally formed the modern day Anglican Communion.

In the British Isles, and early British colonies, this was done to try to defeat both the followers of the Roman Catholic Church and all the kinds of Protestants too by including their best ideas, traditions, and practices in the Anglican Church. Now, the only place in the United Kingdom where Anglicanism is still the official religion is England, where the monarch, King Charles III is the "Supreme Governor on Earth" of the Church of England. The effective government of the Church is by the Archbishop of Canterbury, and the legal Church Parliament known as the General Synod.

In the rest of the world, Anglicanism was spread by overseas colonisation, settlement, and missionary work. It functions there as an ordinary denomination of Christianity without special status. Anglicans around the world join together in a group of national churches in countries where there are Anglican Churches to make the world-wide Anglican Communion. There are more than 80 million Anglicans in the world today. Most live in Africa and Asia and are not of British ethnic heritage anymore.

The Anglican Communion is struggling today with questions about the role of women and gay people in the Church. As the Anglican Communion deals with these serious issues, some have split into liberal and conservative groups. Already, there are Anglicans who have broken from the main Churches to form their own separate groups of believers. Some use the term Anglican combined with the word Catholic, Christian, Reformed, or Episcopal.

At the same time, leaders from the Anglican Communion hold talks with the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches to try to work toward Christian unity. At times, there has been some progress. Also, the Anglican and Lutheran Churches have agreed to a high level of shared beliefs, leadership, and practices called intercommunion.




Khayyam

Khayyam could mean:


The Cumshots

The Cumshots is a heavy metal band from Norway. The band was formed in 1999 by Kristopher Schau and Ole Petter Andreassen.


Pocket gopher

The pocket gophers are burrowing rodents of the family Geomyidae. These are the "true" gophers. Several ground squirrels of the family Sciuridae are often called gophers as well. They are not true gophers,though. The name "pocket gopher" on its own is used for a number of subspecies of the family. Pocket gophers, despite being largely a pest, are a symbol of the U.S. state of Minnesota, sometimes called "the Gopher State".

Pocket gophers are widely distributed in North America, extending into Central America.

Gophers are heavily built, and most are moderately large. They usually weigh a few hundred grams. A few species reach weights approaching 1 kg. Most gophers have brown fur which often closely matches the color of the soil in which they live. Their most characteristic feature is their large cheek pouches. The "pocket" in their name comes from these pouches. These pouches are fur-lined, and can be turned inside out. They extend from the side of the mouth well back onto the shoulders. They have small eyes and a short, hairy tail which they use to feel around tunnels when they walk backwards.

All pocket gophers are burrowers. They are larder hoarders, and their cheek pouches are used for transporting food back to their burrows. Gophers can collect large hoards. Their presence is unambiguously announced by the appearance of mounds of fresh dirt about 20 cm in diameter. These mounds will often appear in vegetable gardens, lawns, or farms, as gophers like moist soil. They also enjoy feeding on vegetables. For this reason, some species are considered agricultural pests. They may also damage trees in forests. Although they will attempt to flee when threatened, they may attack other animals, including cats and humans, and can inflict serious bites with their long, sharp teeth.

There has been much debate among taxonomists about which races of pocket gopher should be recognised as full species. There are about 37 species in six genera.


Geomyoidea

Geomyoidea is a superfamily of rodents that contains the pocket gophers (Geomyidae), the kangaroo rats and mice (Heteromyidae), and their fossil relatives.

Although they do not look similar, gophers are joined with kangaroo rats into a common superfamily. This is widely agreed. Overall morphology, the fossil record, sequence analysis, and biogeography all support this relationship.

Modern geomyoids are mostly restricted to North America, but some have extended their range into South America since the Great American Interchange. Fossil taxa are known from throughout Laurasia.

Some authorities consider the geomyoids related to squirrels, beavers, and mountain beavers.

Other authorities consider geomyoids may be related to mice, jerboas, and perhaps dormice.


Heteromyidae

The family of rodents that include kangaroo rats, kangaroo mice and rock pocket mice is the Heteromyidae family. Most heteromyids live in complex burrows in the deserts and grasslands of western North America. Some species within the "Heteromys" and "Liomys" genera are also found in forests and can be found down as far as northern South America. They feed mostly on seeds and other plant parts, which they carry in their cheek pouches to their burrows.

Although they are very different in physical appearance, the closest relatives of the heteromyids are pocket gophers in the Geomyidae family.




Kangaroo mouse

A kangaroo mouse is either one of the two species of jumping mouse (genus Microdipodops) native to the deserts of the Southwestern United States. Most of them can be found in the state of Nevada. The name "kangaroo mouse" refers to the species' extraordinary jumping ability, as well as its habit of bipedal locomotion. The two species are:

Both species of kangaroo mouse live in sandy desert ecosystems. They forage for seeds and vegetation amongst the scrub brush of their native habitat. The Dark Kangaroo Mouse is also known to feed occasionally on insects and carrion. Interestingly, the mouse never drinks water, instead deriving it metabolically from the foods it eats. The kangaroo mouse collects food and maintains large stocks in their burrows. These burrows are excavated to a length of between 3 and 8 feet (1 to 2.5 meters). The burrow, the entrance to which the mouse covers during daylight hours, is also used to raise litters of between 2 and 7 young. The Pale Kangaroo Mouse burrows only in fine sand, while the Dark Kangaroo Mouse prefers fine, gravelly soils but may also burrow in sand or sandy soil. Kangaroo mice are nocturnal, and are most active in the two hours following sunset. They are believed to hibernate during cold weather.

The kangaroo mice are closely related to the kangaroo rats, which belong to the same subfamily, Dipodomyinae.

Silky pocket mouse

The silky pocket mouse ("Perognathus flavus") is a species of rodent in the family Heteromyidae. Like other members of the heteromyid family, they are more closely related to pocket gophers than to true mice.

The silky pocket mice are small animals with soft fur, long tails, and small feet compared to other heteromyids. They have long claws which they use for digging burrows and sifting sandy substrates for seeds. They have also been found to steal seeds from kangaroo rats' dens. They store these seeds in large hairy external cheek pouches. They are nocturnal and are found in arid habitats. They are not true hibernators, but will go into torpor and stay in their burrows for extended periods of time.


Chaetodipus

Chaetodipus is a genus of pocket mouse. Like other members of their family such as pocket mice in the genus "Perognathus", they are more closely related to pocket gophers than to true mice.

Members of this genus range in size from 80 to 125 mm (head and body) and weigh 15-47 grams (Nowak, 1999). Unlike the silky pocket mice (genus "Perognathus"), most species of the genus "Chaetodipus" have harsh pelage with some bordering on spiny hair. They tend to be found in arid habitats where they feed on seeds, vegetation, and insects (Nowak, 1999). Females give birth to a litter of 2-9 young after a gestation period of just under a month. The longest recorded lifespan is 8 years and 4 months (Nowak, 1999).
Sometimes members of the genus "Chaetodipus" are placed in the genus "Perognathus".


Zarbon

Zarbon (ザーボン, "Zābon") is a character in "Dragonball Z".

Zarbon is a powerful warrior who values beauty and his looks above all else. He first shows up in the Namek saga, and is shown to be one of Frieza's top two henchmen. Little is known about the character other than his pride, and his long history with Vegeta. His long, green braided hair, tiara and earrings might mean he was a high-class prince. He also wears a very long cape as well as leg and arm-warmers. Along with his choice of clothing, he wears the common armor that most of Frieza's men have, including the shoulder pads and a blue scouter. He is very vain and he considers himself to be of high standard. 

Zarbon has the ability to transform into a reptilian beast. With brute strength and ferocity, his second form is much uglier than his first form. Upon transforming, his size increases as well as his muscular build and his skin becomes covered with what appear to be scales, like a reptile. It's clear that he finds this transformation ugly, as it not only offends his general love of beauty but also takes away his attractive form. In essence, he is both a beauty and a beast.

In a speculative storyline written for the made-for-television set before the events of the Dragonball series, Zarbon appears to have acted primarily as Frieza's advisor. It was Zarbon who is shown to have advised Frieza that it would be wise to wipe out the entire Saiyan race before they posed a threat. He is depicted as being beside Frieza as the latter killed King Vegeta and destroyed Planet Vegeta.

Zarbon is first seen in the anime and manga when he accompanies Lord Frieza and Dodoria to the Planet of Namek in search of the Dragonballs, which Frieza desires so that he can wish for immortality. Zarbon helps in the collection of most of the Dragonballs, mercilessly slaughtering Namekians who seek to keep the Dragonballs hidden. After Vegeta, and the separate group of Gohan, Krillin, and Bulma show up, there are some scuffles that leave Dodoria dead. Zarbon is the only remaining top henchman of Frieza, and is sent to find another Namekian village, but instead comes face to face with Vegeta. Vegeta overpowers him at first, but when Zarbon realizes his life is threatened, he surprises Vegeta by transforming into his significantly more powerful -- and ugly -- form. This allows him to easily beat Vegeta, who he leaves for dead.

After returning to Frieza, he is ordered to go back and retrieve Vegeta because he had hidden a Dragonball. Zarbon does this, bringing Vegeta to Frieza's medics for treatment of his wounds. However, Vegeta soon escapes with Frieza's dragonballs after being healed. Ordered to find the Saiyan Prince or face death himself, Zarbon again sets out in search of Vegeta. This time the Prince finds him, and the two battle while Krillin and Bulma look on. Zarbon eventually transforms, but his power is not enough to defeat a healed Vegeta, and he is killed in the battle.

Zarbon has appeared as a playable character in numerous video games, some of which include "Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi", "Dragon Ball Z: Budokai", and "Ultimate Battle 22". In "Dragon Ball Z: Super Sonic Warriors 2", he is a support-type character.

He is not only a playable character in "Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2" but he has his own storyline (A What-if scenario added to the game to show Zarbon's love for his own beauty) in the main story mode of the game entitled "Beautiful Treachery." Upon hearing of the power of the Dragon Balls, he hatches a plan to steal them and wish for eternal beauty. This plan mainly revolves around forcing Krillin to assist him, killing Dodoria, and distracting Frieza with a surprise visit from his brother, Cooler. He even gets to fight alongside Goku when his plan goes wrong. In the end, the battle between Frieza and Cooler destroys the planet, tragically taking Zarbon, despite the effects of his wish, with it.

In an issue of Beckett Anime, a Beckett magazine publication, Zarbon was voted as one of the top five greatest henchmen of all anime, and was the only character from "Dragon Ball Z" on the list.


Dodoria

Dodoria (ドドリア, "Dodoria") is a character in "Dragonball Z".

Dodoria is a large, round alien warrior, appearing to be overweight by human standards. He has protruding spikes on his arms and head. He also wears the common armor that most of Lord Frieza's men have, including the shoulder pads and a green scouter.

Before the events of Dragon Ball Z, Dodoria was always by Frieza's side along with Zarbon. He witnessed the killing of King Vegeta and the destruction of planet Vegeta. Before the destruction of Planet Vegeta, he and a group of his elites were sent to eradicate Bardock and his team of fighters. He was successful in killing most of the team, but left Bardock alive after using a powerful mouth blast on him. Both Frieza and Zarbon looked down upon him for carelessly leaving him alive.

Dodoria accompanied his master Frieza and his comrade in battle, Zarbon, to the green Planet Namek in search of the Namek Dragonballs. While searching in a village for a Dragonball, Dodoria killed a few villagers, but before he could kill Dende, he was attacked by Krillin and Gohan. He pursued them, but they escaped after Krillin used a blinding attack called Solar Flare. Dodoria then launched an attack over a large area, which lead him to believe that he had killed them. On his way back, he was ambushed by Vegeta who easily overpowered him. Dodoria tried to bargain with Vegeta by telling him the secret of the destruction of Planet Vegeta, but he did not care. Vegeta killed him during his attempted escape. He only cameos again during the movie "Fusion Reborn" and in the Super Android 17 Saga when people from Hell are able to escape. He is killed again both times. In addition he also loses his scouter while searching for Vegeta.

Dodoria uses his brute force to overwhelm his opponents. He has the generic powers that many other Dragon Ball characters share, including the ability to throw numerous exceptionally powerful rapid blasts. He can also emit blasts from his mouth as well, most commonly known as mouth blasts. The most noticeable trait that Dodoria has is his ability to throw his weight around. He is extremely fast in spite of his weight. He can perform multiple spins and aerial strikes regardless of his size.

Dodoria has appeared as a playable character in many video games, some of which include "Dragon Ball Z: Budokai", "Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi", and "Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2". He is also in "Dragon Ball Z: Super Sonic Warriors 2" but only as a support-type character.


Perognathinae

Perognathinae is a subfamiliy of rodents. It contains the silky pocket mouse and the pocket mouse

Frieza

Frieza (フリーザ, "Furīza") is a fictional character in the "Dragon Ball" manga and the second major villain in the "Dragon Ball Z" anime.

Frieza is one of the strongest aliens in "Dragon Ball Z". He enjoys invading other planets. Frieza is a very mean person who thinks he is very strong. He has destroyed planets, without mercy. He will even kill his own servants if he wishes to. Frieza is always trying to get more power. Because of this, he ends up fighting the heroes of "Dragon Ball Z" so he can get the Dragon Balls. The Dragon Balls are magical balls that can grant wishes to whoever collects all 7.

Frieza is what the creator, Akira Toriyama, thought monsters looked like in his childhood.

Frieza's name is a pun on all things relating to the cold, with family members introduced later following his example. As his name ends in a short "a" vowel (rather than the long ""ā"" which usually signifies "er" in kana spellings on English words), the character's name is typically spelled with an "a" at the end (as opposed to "Freezer"). However, during FUNimation's dubbing of "Dragon Ball Z", the English writers went with the spelling of "Frieza". This has led to some conjecture over it: U.S. released video games and the English dub use "Frieza", while the Japanese language subtitles on FUNimation's DVDs and the Viz translation of the manga uses "Freeza."

Frieza spies on Vegeta during his mission on Earth and learns that there are Dragon Balls on Planet Namek. He wants to get them and wish for Immortality, so Frieza and his soldiers try and steal the Dragon Balls from the Namekians. After Cui, Dodoria and Zarbon; three of Frieza's soldiers, are beaten by Vegeta, he sends the Ginyu Force, his strongest men, to get the Dragon Balls and destroy the Saiyan enemy. They almost win, but Goku comes to Namek and quickly defeats them.

While trying to learn how to summon Porunga, the namekian dragon, Frieza is confronted by Nail, the strongest of the Namek warriors. Frieza defeats Nail effortlessly, leaving him to die after discovering that dende has run to the Z-fighters to tell Krillin and Gohan how to use the dragon balls. Enraged, the great tyrant follows in pursuit of the heroes only to be faced with a much more powerful Vegeta who is now capable of matching Frieza's current strength.

Spurred on by Vegeta, Frieza unveils his second form, allowing him to defeat Vegeta and critically injure Krillin, taunting Gohan with his friend's limp body. Before he can finish them off, Piccolo joins the battle - roughly even in abilities to Frieza, thanks to a splendid fusion with the dying Nail. The heroes are able to regroup, Dende healing them one after another. Frieza himself is seriously wounded for the first time: Krillin is able to chop off a portion of his tail using a Destructo Disk.

Having difficulty contending with Piccolo, Frieza again transformed, unlocking more of his power and enabling him to lay waste to his opponent. Finally he unveiled his true form, stressing that he intended to give his foes the pleasure of observing it before they died. As his first act, Frieza murders Dende, who had been healing the heroes, before brutally beating Vegeta. Just as Frieza was about to slay Vegeta, the healed Goku arrives on the battlefield, ready to fight Frieza. Vegeta, believing (incorrectly) that Goku had finally become a full-fledge Super Saiyan, taunts Frieza, even though, he, Vegeta, is too badly beaten to even stand. Frieza, proud of his past accomplishments, smirks before sending a Death Beam through the Saiyan Prince's heart. Teetering on the brink of death, Vegeta is able to tell the newly healed Goku of Frieza's genocide of the Saiyan race, imploring him to take revenge on behalf for all Saiyans. As Vegeta finishes his plea to Goku, he dies. Goku, saddened by Vegeta's death, buries him and vows to finish Frieza. Goku and Frieza then spar, with Frieza realizing that his opponent is the son of the Saiyan that gave him such trouble years before. Goku and Frieza are an even match for a while, until Frieza reveals that he had only been fighting at a mere fraction of his full power. Frieza then increases to 50%, and easily gains the upper hand against Goku, with Goku struggling to keep up.

Goku is eventually able to heavily wound Frieza using a Spirit Bomb, calling on the energies of the entire planet Namek.

Believing the warlord dead, the heroes take the time to relax, not noticing that Frieza had emerged from the blast's crater. Frieza retaliates by mortally wounding Piccolo and murdering Krillin. Already bordering on the edge of his rage, Frieza killing Krillin, pushes Goku over it, his rage exploding, causing Frieza to inadvertently create what he had always feared: A Super Saiyan.

In the ensuing battle, Frieza and Goku trade blows, but as the fight progresses, Frieza's power gradually diminishes with the repeated punishment. In frustration, Frieza sends a Death Ball into the core of the planet, starting a chain reaction that would destroy Namek in "five minutes". Frieza unleashes 100% of his power. Frieza is now able to launch a huge assault against the surprised Goku, who had not expected Frieza's power to be as high as it is. Goku and Frieza face off and eventually after a very long battle, Goku gets the battle under his control, and calls off the fight, claiming it would be pointless to continue; Frieza losing strength rapidly and Goku already having humbled the tyrant. Humiliated, Frieza refuses to relent, attacking Goku with two Tsuibi Kienzan. As Goku dodges the attacks, Frieza ironically becomes distracted long enough to be vivisected by his own attack.

Barely clinging to life but desperate to survive, Frieza begs and begs for mercy, which Goku hesitantly provides. Frieza's arrogance refuses to allow him to be beaten and saved by a Saiyan "monkey", and he expends what little energy he has left to attack Goku. Overcome with anger, Goku fires a Ki blast that consumes both Frieza and his attack, seemingly ending Frieza's reign over the universe.
Unbeknownst to Goku, Frieza survived the destruction of Namek. Able to do nothing more than breathe, Frieza floated in the planet's debris, kept company only by his thoughts of how the universe's conqueror had been thoroughly beaten by a Saiyan. His father, King Cold, had crews search the area, not believing his son to have been killed by something as insignificant as the explosion of a planet. What could be found of Frieza was salvaged, his missing limbs and face reconstructed with cybernetic enhancements. Scarred and bitter - though feeling stronger than he had before. Frieza's first thought upon rehabilitation is revenge on those who sullied him.

Frieza beats Goku to Earth. Despite his ill intentions towards Earth and all who lived there, Frieza notes "It's a good planet" on first viewing. Frieza orders his henchmen to find and slaughter its inhabitants, with Frieza keen on killing his enemy's friends himself. However, his army is torn apart by the blade-wielding fighter Future Trunks. Frieza dismisses his challenger as an insolent child, and pays him almost no heed until the boy reveals himself as another Super Saiyan.

Dumbstruck, Frieza makes several different efforts to kill Trunks, each of which is parried easily. He then plays his trump card in the form of a Death Ball ten times the size of the one that destroyed Planet Namek. Even this is nonchalantly brushed away, until a mortified Frieza causes it to detonate with another shot of "ki". Thinking him to be destroyed by the assault, both the father and son are stunned when Trunks fires the Burning Attack out of nowhere. Fuming, Frieza becomes oblivious to his opponent's position, and is surprised and sliced in half by the Saiyan youth before being cut to pieces and blown to dust.

After his death, Frieza makes numerous cameo appearances throughout the remainder of the series from Hell, including observing Goku's fight with Buu alongside other defeated villains from the series.

In "Dragon Ball GT", he teams up with Cell to act as a distraction for Goku while a horde of villains from the Z-Fighters' past escape Hell. Frieza traps Goku in the next world, but even allied with Cell, he is eventually defeated and remains in Hell.
Over time, Frieza's power became so great that his body could not comfortably contain it, and a series of physical transformations were developed that limit his actual strength While changing shape from his "first-form", each alteration builds on the previous. In all, Frieza demonstrated four transformed states, each with increasing power (some larger than others and each resulting in different physical attributes).

In his first form, Frieza is a relatively short humanoid, albeit with a large chestnut-shaped skull with two horns. He also has a tail with a spiked end, as well as having three talon-like toes. He wears the same upper-body armor that many of his subordinates (including the Saiyans) are shown to wear, and while traveling, often gives the appearance of weakness by exclusively using his hoverchair for transportation, leaving his henchmen to do his "dirty work".

His second form is similar in appearance to the first, except much larger, both in height and muscle mass, Frieza claiming to have nearly doubled his power in this state. He also grows longer horns, which now instead of protruding sideways from his skull curve sharply upwards into near right angles. His armor cannot contain his form and shatters, leaving him with a new, white natural armor covering his chest and shoulders. In this form, he somewhat resembles his father King Cold.

Frieza's third form is again more brutish, with an extremely elongated skull. His facial features contort and change, with his nose melding into his mouth to form a crude beak. His original horns recede, and more now erupt in pairs along the length of his head. He walks and stands with a slight hunch, as if the strain of supporting his head was too much for even Frieza's own body to bear. This form vaguely resembles a Xenomorph from the Alien movies.

Drastically differing from his previous transformations, in his final form Frieza instead regresses, becoming shorter and less bulky, his horns and spikes disappear and his physique becomes streamlined. His skin becomes pure, solid white with purple sections on his head, shoulders, forearms, chest and shins.

Frieza is also able to attain 100% power, greatly increasing his muscle mass. At 100% this is literally the peak of Frieza's strength and the maximum amount of power his body can output; his muscle mass becomes engorged compared to his previously sleek frame. However, due to the strain on his body he can not fight at full capacity for long, slowly weakening whether he is dealing or receiving damage.

Physically ruined while caught in the Planet Namek's explosion after his defeat, what remained of the still-living Frieza was salvaged and rebuilt with cybernetic enhancements by scientists under the order of King Cold. The whole of the lower half of his body and right side of his face are replaced, with scarring and metal accouterments covering what little was left of his organic self. These enhancements allowed him to exceed the limits of power imposed by his fully organic form, though how much more powerful it made him is unknown.



Daichiretsuzan "("Great Earth Cutting Row")"


Hokaku Kon Dan "("Imprisonment Ball")"



Tsuibi Kienzan"("Following Energy Circle Slicer")"

Transformation "(Henshin)"

Yubisaki kara no Shogekiha "("Shockwave blast from the finger")"

Gogetsu Kiai
Toei Animation

Ocean Group

FUNimation

Australia

Brazil

Canada

France

Portugal

Zimbabwe

Frieza appears in the following "Dragon Ball Z" movies and television specials:

Dragon Ball Z: Bardock - The Father of Goku - DBZ TV Special #1; released October 17, 1990

Dragon Ball Z: Cooler's Revenge - DBZ Movie #5; released July 21, 1991

Dragon Ball Z: Fusion Reborn - DBZ Movie #12; released March 4, 1995

In addition, Frieza's destruction of Planet Vegeta is shown from another point of view in "Burn Up!! A Close, Intense, Super-Fierce Battle" (DBZ Movie #8) and the mercenaries from "Super Deciding Battle for the Entire Planet Earth" (DBZ Movie #3) believe they would be strong enough to challenge Frieza after eating the fruit of the Tree of Might.

He also appears in footage from the Famicom game (and later Playdia remake) "Plan to Eradicate the Saiyans". In it Frieza seems to be somehow resurrected, with he and past villains Cooler, Tullece, and Lord Slug attacking Goku and his friends. Once it's revealed these are merely ghost-warriors meant to distract the heroes, however, the false Frieza and his allies are easily dealt with.
"All games are listed in chronological order of release."


Myrmecophile

A myrmecophile is an animal that lives with ants. A myrmecophile may help the ants, or it may be a parasite of the ants by eating them or their food.

Many myrmecophiles eat waste in ant nests, such as dead ants or fungi growing in the nest. Some myrmecophiles make food that the ants can eat. Aphids do this when they make honeydew. Ants may even farm or tend some insects, such as aphids, that make food for them. Other myrmecophiles eat the food supplies of ants, and a few eat ant eggs, larvae, or pupae.

One family (group) of butterflies lives with ants and sometimes makes food for the ants. The ants help the butterfly caterpillars by keeping away other animals that want to eat or hurt the caterpillars.

Other animals that live with ants include some beetles, flies, mites, and spiders. Flies in the genus (group) called "Microdon" live in ant nests and eat waste or eat larval ants. 

Argemone

An argemone or prickly poppy is a plant used for decoration. It is related to the poppy. The plant is common in the Americas.

Grist

Grist is grain that has been separated from its chaff and is ready for grinding. It can also mean grain that has already been ground at a grist mill. The word "grist" is related to the verb "to grind".

Banjul

Banjul (formerly Bathurst) is the capital city of the Gambia. About 31,000 people live in the city. But the total urban area is many times larger with 413,397 people. The city is on St Mary's Island (or "Banjul Island") where the Gambia River enters the Atlantic Ocean. The island is connected to the rest of Gambia by ferries to the north and bridges to the south. Banjul is the main urban area of The Gambia. It is the country's economic and administrative center.

Peanut processing is the main industry of the country. bee's wax, palm wood, palm oil, and animal skins are also transported from its port.

Things to see in the city include the Gambian National Museum, the Albert Market, Banjul State House, Banjul Court House, two cathedrals and several major mosques. The city is served by the Banjul International Airport.

In 1816, the British founded Banjul as a trading post. Banjul was also used to help stop the slave trade. It was first named "Bathurst" after Henry Bathurst. The name was changed to Banjul in 1973.

Banjul has a very warm climate year round. Under the Köppen climate classification, Banjul features a tropical wet and dry climate. The city features a lengthy dry season, spanning from November to June and a relatively short wet season covering the remaining four months. However, during those four months, Banjul tends to see heavy precipitation. August is usually the rainiest month, with on average more than 300 mm of precipitation falling. Temperatures are somewhat constant, though it tends to be slightly cooler during the wet season than the dry season.

According to a Gambian government minister, Banjul is at risk of submerging under water by a metre rise in sea levels as a result of climate change and global warming.

The highest temperature recorded since records began in Banjul was 47.0 °C (116.6 °F) on 31 July 1980 and the lowest was 0.0 °C (32.0 °F) on 1 May 1976. The coldest day on record in Banjul was 18.0 °C (64.4 °F) on 4 March 1988 and the warmest night on record was 31.0 °C (87.8 °F) on 13 April 1988.


Medieval Latin

Medieval Latin was the form of Latin that was used in the Middle Ages. It was used mostly by scholars and as the liturgical language of the medieval Roman Catholic Church, but it was used also as a language of science, literature and administration.

Despite the clerical origin of many of its authors, Medieval Latin should not be confused with Ecclesiastical Latin. There is no consensus on exactly when Late Latin ends, and Medieval Latin begins. Some scholars have their surveys of it begin with the rise of early Christian Latin in the mid-4th century, but others have around the year 500.






Armen Grigoryan

Armen Grigoryan () is the front man (and main songwriter) of "Crematorium" (Krematorij) Russian rock-band.

Grigoryan was born on November 24, 1960 in Moscow. His parents were Armenian. In 1983, he formed "Crematorium" which gained a reputation throughout the former Soviet Union and began to perform at concerts all over the country. Armen Grigoryan helped the development of Russian rock music. He composes lyrics that frequently deal with the themes of life and death in various religious contexts.



Krematorij

Krematorij (Russian: Крематорий) is a Russian rock band. The lead singer of the group is Armen Grigoryan (Армен Григорян). He is also the main songwriter for the band.

The band was formed in 1983 in Moscow. After the release of their "Illusionary World" album in 1985, the group was well known throughout the former Soviet Union. They began to perform at concerts all over the country. The band uses a violin in their music to give Krematorij a sound that is different from other bands. This has been important to the group's continued popularity.


Kristopher Schau

Kristopher Hugh Martin Schau (born 12 August 1970 in Oslo) is a Norwegian musician, presenter, comedian and songwriter. He was a singer in heavy metal band The Cumshots. Now he is the singer in the Norwegian rock band The Dogs.

Ole Petter Andreassen

Ole Petter Andreassen (born September 22, 1975) is a Norwegian musician and producer. He plays guitar in heavy metal band The Cumshots.

Intercity Express

The Intercity-Express (abbreviated: ICE; sometimes stylized as "InterCityExpress"), is a category of high speed trains, which are operated by DB Fernverkehr since 1991. It is the highest service and fare category (Class A) of rail in Germany and the flagship train of the German state railway, Deutsche Bahn. There are currently 259 trainsets in use.

The trains have an operating speed of up to 300 km/h. They are one of fastest trains in the world. Some of the high-speed lines in Germany are:

There are other (upgraded) lines where the trains can reach 200 km/h. Some new high-speed lines are under construction, some are in planning.

ICE trains are also travelling to Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, The Netherlands and Switzerland. Some of the destinations in other countries are: Aarhus, Brussels, Utrecht, Liege, Arnhem, Basel, Bern, Salzburg, Linz, Metz, Innsbruck, Amsterdam, Paris, Zürich and Vienna.

Honeydew

Honeydew is a liquid sugar that aphids and some scale insects make when they eat plant sap. Honeydew is very sticky.

To eat plant sap, the aphid or scale insect pushes its mouth parts into the plant. Plant sap is under pressure inside the plant. The pressure inside the plant pushes the sap into the insect. Sometimes the pressure is so great that the sap is forced out of the rear of the insect. This is how honeydew is made. The honeydew then drops from the insect and makes a sticky layer on the plant.

Honeydew on plants can cause sooty mould, which is white and appears as powder on the plant.

Honeydew is collected by some insects, such as some wasps and bees. Some honey bees make honeydew into a dark, strong honey, called honeydew honey. Honeydew honey is valuable in parts of Europe and Asia because people think it can be used as a medicine.

Ants collect honeydew from aphids. Many ants even harvest the honeydew directly from the aphids. This helps the aphids, because the ants chase predators, such as lady beetles, away from the aphids.

Ecclesiastical Latin

The term Ecclesiastical Latin (sometimes called Church Latin or Italian Latin) is the Latin that is used in documents of the Roman Catholic Church and in its Latin liturgies. It is not a distinct language but a form of Latin used for ecclesiastical purposes because it can be used also for commercial or other purposes.

The Church issued the dogmatic definitions of the first seven General Councils in Greek, and even in Rome, Greek remained at first the language of the liturgy and the language in which the first popes wrote. The Holy See is not obliged to use Latin as its official language, and in theory, it could change its practice.

However, Latin has the advantage that the meaning of its words is less likely to change radically over the centuries. That helps to ensure theological precision and orthodoxy. Accordingly, recent Popes have reaffirmed the importance of Latin for the Church, particularly for those in ecclesiastical studies.




Mate (drink)

Mate is a traditional drink in some countries in South America, especially in Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, Chile, Bolivia and Brazil. The drink, which contains mateine (an analog of caffeine), is made by an infusion of dried leaves of yerba mate ("Ilex paraguariensis"). It is usually drunk with friends and served in a hollow calabash gourd with a "Bombilla", a special metallic drinking straw. The straw is also called a "bomba" in Portuguese, and a "bombija" in Arabic. It is traditionally made of silver. The gourd is known as a "mate" or a "guampa". In Brazil it called a "cuia". Even if the water comes in a very modern thermos, the drink is traditionally drunk from "mates" or "cuias". There are now modern "tea-bag" type infusions of mate called "mate cocido" which have been sold in Argentina for many years. They are drunk from a cup. They are sold under such trade names as "Cruz de Malta" (Maltese Cross) and in Brazil under the name "Mate Leão" (Lion Mate).
Like other brewed herbs, "yerba mate" leaves are dried, chopped, and ground into a powder called "yerba". The "bombilla" is both a straw and a sieve. The end which is placed in the drink is wider, with small holes or slots that let the brewed liquid in, but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture. A modern "bombilla" uses a straight tube with holes, or spring sleeve to act as a sieve. "Bombilla" means "light bulb" in Spanish, but locally it is "little pump" or "straw".

In some areas of the Middle Eastern countries of Syria and Lebanon it is also common to drink mate. The custom of drinking "mate" came from Arab emigrants from South America. Syria is the world's biggest importer of yerba mate in the world, importing 15,000 tons of yerba mate a year.

"Mate" is made differently in different places, with many arguments about which way is the best. In nearly all methods, the gourd is nearly filled with "yerba", and hot water (typically at 70–80 °C <nowiki>[</nowiki>160–180 °F<nowiki>]</nowiki> and never boiling) is added.

The most common way to make mate involves a careful arrangement of the "yerba" in the gourd before adding hot water. The gourd is filled one-half to three-quarters of the way with "yerba". Extra herbs may be added for either health or flavor benefits. This is most often done in Paraguay, where people get herbs from a local yuyera (herbalist). The "mate" is used as a base for their herbal infusions. When the gourd is filled, the preparer typically grasps it with their full hand. They cover the opening and roughly seal it with their palm. Then the "mate" is turned upside-down, and shaken vigorously, but briefly and with gradually decreasing force, in this inverted position causing the finest, most powdery particles of the "yerba" to settle toward the preparer's palm and the top of the mate.

Once the "yerba" is settled, the mate is carefully brought to a near-sideways angle, with the opening tilted just slightly upward of the base. The mate is then shaken very gently with a side-to-side motion. This further settles the "yerba" inside the gourd so that the finest particles move toward the opening and the "yerba" is layered along one side. The largest stems and other bits create a partition between the empty space on one side of the gourd and the lopsided pile of "yerba" on the other.

After arranging the "yerba" along one side of the gourd, the "mate" is carefully tilted back onto its base, minimizing further disturbances of the "yerba" as it is re-oriented to allow consumption. Some avalanche-like settling is normal, but is not desirable. The angled mound of "yerba" should remain, with its powdery peak still flat and mostly level with the top of the gourd. A layer of stems along its slope will slide downward and accumulate in the space opposite the "yerba" (though at least a portion should remain in place).

All of this careful settling of the "yerba" ensures that each sip contains as little particulate matter as possible, creating a smooth-running mate. The finest particles will then be as distant as possible from the filtering end of the "bombilla". With each draw, the smaller particles would inevitably move toward the "bombilla", but the larger particles and stems filter much of this out. A sloped arrangement provides consistent concentration and flavor with each filling of the "mate".

Now the "mate" is ready to receive the "bombilla". Many people choose to pour warm water into the "mate" before adding the "bombilla", while others insist that the "bombilla" is best inserted into dry "yerba". Wetting the "yerba" by gently pouring cool water into the empty space within the gourd until the water nearly reaches the top, and then allowing it to be absorbed into the yerba before adding the "bombilla", allows the preparer to carefully shape and "pack" the "yerba"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s slope with the "bombilla"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s filtering end, which makes the overall form of the "yerba" within the gourd more resilient and solid. Dry "yerba", on the other hand, allows a cleaner and easier insertion of the "bombilla", though care must be taken so as not to overly disturb the arrangement of the "yerba". Such a decision is entirely a personal or cultural preference. The "bombilla" is inserted with your thumb on the upper end of the bombilla, at an angle roughly perpendicular to the slope of the "yerba", so that its filtering end travels into the deepest part of the yerba and comes to rest near or against the opposite wall of the gourd.

Now the "yerba" may be brewed. If the "bombilla" was inserted into dry "yerba", the mate must first be filled once with warm water as above, then be allowed to absorb it completely (which generally takes no more than two or three minutes). Treating the "yerba" with cool water before the addition of hot water is essential, as it protects the herb from being scalded and from the chemical breakdown of some of its desirable nutrients. Hot water may then be added by carefully pouring it, as with the cool water before, into the cavity opposite the "yerba", until it reaches almost to the top of the gourd when the "yerba" is fully saturated. Care should be taken to maintain the dryness of the swollen top of the "yerba" beside the edge of the gourd's opening.

Once the hot water has been added, the mate is ready for drinking. It may be refilled many times before becoming washed out ("lavado") and losing its flavor. When this happens, the mound of "yerba" can be pushed from one side of the gourd to the other, allowing water to be added along its opposite side; this revives the "mate" for additional re-fillings.

"Mate" is traditionally drunk in a particular social setting, such as family gatherings or with friends. One person (known in Spanish as the "cebador") assumes the task of server. Typically, the cebador fills the gourd and drinks the "mate" completely to ensure that it is free of particulate matter and of good quality. The server subsequently refills the gourd and passes it to the next drinker who likewise drinks it all, without thanking the server. The ritual proceeds around the circle in this fashion until the "mate" becomes "lavado" ("washed out" or "flat"), typically after the gourd has been filled about ten times or more depending on the "yerba" used (well-aged "yerba mate" is typically more potent, and therefore provides a greater number of refills). When one has had his fill of "mate", he or she politely thanks the "cebador" passing the "mate" back at the same time.

The drink has a pungent taste like a cross between green tea and coffee, with hints of tobacco and oak. Some drinkers like to add sugar or honey, creating "mate dulce" (sweet "mate"), instead of sugarless "mate amargo" (bitter "mate"). It is considered bad for the gourd (especially for the natural (squash or wood) ones) to be used for "mate dulce" so it is normal for households with drinkers of both kinds to have two separate gourds.

Traditionally, natural gourds are used, though wood vessels, bamboo tubes and gourd-shaped "mates", made of ceramic or metal (stainless steel or even silver) are also common. Gourds are commonly decorated with silver, sporting decorative or heraldic designs with floral motifs.

Both the wood vessels and the gourds must undergo "curing" to get a better taste before being used for the first time and to ensure the long life of the gourd. Typically, to cure a gourd, the inside is first scraped with the tip of a bombilla to remove loose gourd particles. "Mate" herb and hot water is added next, and the mixture poured into the gourd. The mixture is left to sit overnight and the water is topped off periodically through the next 24 hours as the gourd absorbs the water. Finally the gourd is scraped out, emptied, and put in sunlight until completely dry.

It is common for a black mold to grow inside the gourd when it is stored. Some people will clean this out, others consider it an enhancement to the mate flavor.

The Guaraní people started drinking mate in the region that now includes Paraguay, southern Brazil, Uruguay, and north-east Argentina. The Guaraní have a legend that says that the Goddesses of the Moon and the Cloud came to the Earth one day to visit it but they instead found a Yaguareté (a kind of jaguar) that was going to attack them. An old man saves them, and, in compensation, the Goddesses gave the old man a new kind of plant, from which he could prepare a "drink of friendship".

There is another drink that can be prepared with specially cut dry leaves, very cold water and, optionally, lemon or another fruit juice, called "tereré". It is very common in Paraguay. Drinking and harvesting of Mate started in Paraguay in pre-Hispanic times. (Notice its scientific name, "Ilex paraguayensis".)

In Brazil the traditional "mate" or "cuia" is usually big with a corresponding large hole. In Uruguay and Argentina (especially in the capital, Buenos Aires) the mate is small and has a small hole, and people sometimes add sugar for flavor. In Bolivia and Peru, "mate de coca" is often sipped instead of ordinary mate.

In Uruguay there is even a national law that prohibits drinking "mate" while driving, because it caused many accidents of people getting scalded with hot water while driving. For the same reason, there is also a "forbidden to drink mate" sign in all public transportation buses.

In Uruguay and in the northeast of Argentina it is not uncommon to see people walking around the streets toting a "mate" and a thermos with hot water. In Montevideo, Uruguay’s capital, it is possible to see some construction worker drinking mate while riding his bicycle early in the morning, on his way to work. In some parts of Argentina, gas stations sponsored by "yerba mate" producers provide free hot water to travellers, specifically for the purpose of drinking during the journey. There are disposable mate sets with a plastic mate and bombilla, and sets with a thermos flask and stacking containers for the yerba and sugar inside a fitted case.

In Brazil, traditionally prepared mate is known as "chimarrão", although in areas near the border with Uruguay the word "mate" is also used. Nowadays, in Brazil, "mate" is often toasted with sugar and prepared in a similar manner to tea, a custom that originated in Paraguay. Supermarkets, restaurants and fast food chains sell "tea bags" and prepacked "iced tea" packages and bottles. In Argentina, "mate cocido" (cooked mate) is made with a teabag or leaves and drunk from a cup or mug, with or without sugar and milk.

At the beginning of the 21st century most urban Chileans are not mate drinkers, but travel narratives such as Maria Graham's Journal of a Residence in Chile [2003(1824):8], show that there is a long history of mate drinking in central Chile. Many rural Chileans drink "mate", in particular in the southern regions, particularly Chiloé and Magallanes, perhaps due to the influence of neighboring areas of Argentina.

According to a major retailer of mate in San Luis Obispo, California, by 2004 "mate" had grown to about 5% of the overall natural tea market in North America Bottled iced mate is widely available in California.


Bear (disambiguation)

Bears are a group of large mammals. They form the family "Ursidae", in the order "Carnivora".

The word bear could also mean:


Yerba mate

Yerba mate, Ilex paraguariensis, is a species of holly (family Aquifoliaceae) native to subtropical South America. It grows in Argentina, southern Paraguay, western Uruguay and southern Brazil.
The yerba mate plant is a shrub or small tree. It can grow up to 15 meters tall. The leaves are evergreen, 7–11 cm long and 3–5.5 cm wide. They have a serrated margin. The flowers are small, greenish-white, with four petals. The fruit is a red berry 4–6 mm diameter.

The infusion called "mate" is prepared by steeping dry leaves (and twigs) of yerba mate in hot water, rather than boiling water like black tea or coffee. It is slightly weaker than coffee and much gentler on the stomach. Drinking mate with friends from a shared hollow gourd (also called a "mate" in Spanish, or "cabaça" or "cuia" in Portuguese) with a metal straw (a "bombilla" in Spanish, "bomba" or "canudo" in Portuguese) is an extremely common social practice in Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, southern Chile, eastern Bolivia and Brazil

Brewed yerba tastes a lot like vegetables, herbs, and grass. It is similar to that of some varieties of green tea. Many consider the flavor to be very agreeable, but it is generally bitter if steeped in boiling water. It is therefore made using hot but not boiling water. Unlike most teas, it does not become bitter and astringent when steeped for extended periods, and the leaves may be infused several times. Additionally, one can purchase flavored mate in many varieties.

In Brazil, a toasted version of mate, known as "chá mate" or "mate tea", is sold in teabag and loose form, and served, sweetened, in specialized shops, either hot or iced with fruit juice or milk. An iced, sweetened version of toasted mate is sold as a soft drink, with or without fruit flavoring. The toasted variety of mate has less of a bitter flavor and more of a spicy fragrance. It is more popular in the coastal cities of Brazil, as opposed to the far southern states where it is consumed in the traditional way (green, drunk with a silver straw from a shared gourd).

Similarly, a form of mate is sold in Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay in tea bags to be drunk in a similar way to tea. This is known in Spanish as "mate cocido" or "cocido". In Argentina this is commonly drunk with breakfast or as part of "merienda" (roughly, afternoon tea), often with a selection of "facturas" (sweet pastries). It is also made by heating yerba in water and straining it as it cools.

The plant is grown mainly in South America, more specifically in Northern Argentina (Corrientes, Misiones), Paraguay, Uruguay and southern Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Paraná). The Guaraní are reputed to be the first people who cultivated the plant; the first Europeans to do this were Jesuit missionaries, who spread the drinking habit as far as Ecuador.

When the yerba is harvested, the branches are dried sometimes with a wood fire, imparting a smoky flavor. Then the leaves and sometimes the twigs are broken up.

There are many brands and types of yerba, with and without twigs, some with low powder content. Some types are less strong in flavor ("suave", "soft") and there are blends flavored with mint, orange and grapefruit skin, etc.

Mate contains xanthines, which are alkaloids in the same family as caffeine, theophylline, and theobromine, well-known stimulants also found in coffee and chocolate. Mate also contains elements such as potassium, magnesium and manganese. Caffeine content varies between 0.3% and 1.7% of dry weight (compare this to 2.5–4.5% for tea leaves, and 1.5% for ground coffee).

Mate products are sometimes marketed as "caffeine-free" alternatives to coffee and tea, and said to have fewer negative effects. This is often based on a claim that the primary active xanthine in mate is "mateine". This is wrongly said to be a stereoisomer of caffeine (it is not chemically possible for caffeine to have a stereoisomer). "Mateine" is an official synonym of caffeine in the chemical databases. So mateine "is" caffeine.

Researchers at Florida International University in Miami have found that yerba mate does contain caffeine, but some people seem to tolerate a mate drink better than coffee or tea. This is because, caffeine aside, mate contains different chemicals from tea or coffee.

From reports of personal experience with mate, its physiological effects are similar to (yet distinct from) coffee, tea, or guarana drinks. Users report a mental state of wakefulness, focus and alertness reminiscent of most stimulants. However, they often remark on mate's lack of the negative effects typically created by other such compounds, such as anxiety, diarrhea, "jitteriness", and heart palpitations. (The laxative effect of coffee derives from a substance that surrounds the raw bean, not the caffeine itself.)

Studies of mate, though limited, have shown evidence that the mate xanthine cocktail is different from other plants containing caffeine, in its effects on muscle tissue, as opposed to those on the central nervous system. Mate has been shown to have a relaxing effect on smooth muscle tissue, and a stimulating effect on myocardial (heart) tissue.

Mate's negative effects are anecdotally claimed to be of a lesser degree than those of coffee, though no explanation for this is offered, except for its potential as a placebo effect. Many users report that drinking yerba mate does not prevent them from being able to fall asleep, as is often the case with some more common stimulating beverages. It enhances their energy and ability to remain awake at will. However, the net amount of caffeine in one preparation of yerba mate is typically quite high, in large part because the repeated filling of the mate with hot water is able to extract the highly-soluble xanthines extremely effectively. It is for this reason that one mate may be shared among several people and yet produce the desired stimulating effect in all of them.

In-vivo and in-vitro studies are showing yerba mate to exhibit significant cancer-fighting activity. Researchers at the University of Illinois (2005) found yerba mate to be "rich in phenolic constituents" and to "inhibit oral cancer cell proliferation".

On the other hand, a study by the International Agency for Research on Cancer showed a limited correlation between oral cancer and the drinking of hot mate (no data were collected on drinkers of cold mate). Given the influence of the temperature of water, as well as the lack of complete adjustment for age, alcohol consumption and smoking, the study concludes that mate is "not classifiable as to its carcinogenicity to humans".

An August 11, 2005 United States patent application (documents #20050176777, #20030185908, and #20020054926) cites yerba mate extract as an inhibitor of MAO activity; the maximal inhibition observed "in vitro" was 40–50%. A monoamine oxidase inhibitor is a type of antidepressant, so there is some data to suggest that yerba mate has a calming effect in this regard.

In addition, it has been noted by the U.S. Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine that yerba mate can cause high blood pressure when used in conjunction with other MAO inhibitors (such as Nardil and Parnate).

Guarana

Guarana or Guaraná (, or ), "Paullinia cupana" (syn. "P. crysan, P. sorbilis"), is a shrub or small tree in the Sapindaceae family. It is native to Venezuela and northern Brazil. The seed of the Guaraná fruit is a stimulant with thermogenic and diuretic properties.

The guaraná fruit's color ranges from orange to red and contain black seeds which are partly covered by white arils. The color contrast when the fruit has been split open has been likened to eyeballs; this is the basis of a myth "(see below)".

Guaraná plays an important role in Tupi and Guaraní Brazilian culture. The name 'guaraná' is derived from the Tupi-Guarani word "wara'ná". These tribes believed, it was magical, a cure for bowel complaints and a way to regain strength. They also tell the myth of a 'Divine Child' that was killed by a serpent and whose eyes gave birth to this plant.

Guaraná is mainly used as an ingredient in soft drinks and energy drinks. It is also used as a dietary supplement, generally to promote weight loss. In addition, it may be an ingredient in other foods.

In addition to other chemicals, the guaraná plant contains caffeine (sometimes called "guaranine"), theophylline, and theobromine. Water extracts of the guarana plant are central nervous system stimulants due to the content of these alkaloids. Energy drink manufacturers typically add synthetic caffeine or caffeine derived from coffee decaffeination, though many advertise "natural" caffeine from the seeds of guaraná.

Brazil produces several brands of soft drink from guaraná extract that contain no added caffeine. Each differs greatly in flavour; some have only a slight guaraná fruit taste. They are typically fizzy and sweet, with a very fruity aftertaste. Most guaraná drinks are produced in Brazil and consumed locally or in nearby countries, such as Paraguay. Major brands include Guaraná Antarctica, Guaraná Schin from Schincariol and Guaraná Brahma from AmBev, Kuat, and Guaraná Jesus, a local Brazilian brand named for the druggist that formulated it. Many local producers also create drinks not for export.

Studies involving guaraná show benefits to cognitive function. They have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or any similar government agencies. In the United States, guaraná holds a GRAS-status, i.e. "generally regarded as safe" and must be labeled as "not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease."

The Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics published a study in June 2001. This study shows an average 11.2 pound weight loss in a group taking a mixture of yerba mate, guaraná and damiana, compared to an average 1 pound loss in a placebo group after 45 days.

A university study in Brazil of guaraná extract showed a platelet aggregation decrease of up to 37% of control values and a decrease of platelet thromboxane formation from arachidonic acid of up to 78% of control values. This study may be significant to stroke and heart attack risk reduction because when excess thromboxane formation occurs, an arterial blood clot can develop, resulting in a heart attack or ischemic stroke.

A separate 1997 study of guaraná's effects on the physical activity of rats showed increased memory retention and physical endurance when compared with a placebo.

Other studies have shown antioxidant, antibacterial, and fat cell reduction (when combined with conjugated linoleic acid) properties in guaraná 

Although side-effects of guaraná are rare, drugs.com recommends, "When considering the use of herbal supplements, consultation with a primary health care professional is advisable. Additionally, consultation with a practitioner trained in the uses of herbal/health supplements may be beneficial, and coordination of treatment among all health care providers involved may be advantageous". Drugs.com also advises not to mix guaraná with ephedrine.

Guaraná seeds consist of mostly reddish vegetable fiber and resin with a small amount of oil and water. Guarana contains different amounts of caffeine, theobromine, theophylline and other alkaloids, compared to coffee, tea, mate, or cocoa.

Duke1992a: Duke, James A. 1992. "Handbook of phytochemical constituents of GRAS herbs and other economic plants." Boca Raton, FL. CRC Press.

The chemical "guaranine" is identical to caffeine coming from other sources, for example coffee, tea and mate. Guaranine, theine, mateine are all official synonyms for caffeine. 

Broken English

Broken English, or Engrish is a variant of the English language by people who do not speak English very well.

The term may refer to spoken English, and it can also describe written English. In Japan, it is common to add English text to items for decorative and fashion purposes.

The term "Engrish" first appears as an Asian mispronunciation of the word "English" in the 1940s. It was not until the 1980s that it began to be used to as a byname for defective Asian English. The related term "wasei-eigo" means made-up English words that have entered into everyday Japanese.

Broken English can be found in East Asian countries, and also many places in other places where a lot of East Asians live. Broken English has been found on many things from poorly translated signs, menus, and manuals to strangely worded advertisements, food items, and strange t-shirt slogans. Broken English also sometimes happens when a word or sentence is badly translated on the Internet.


Sacred cow

Sacred cow is an idiom. It is an expression or phrase that is used without the literal meaning of being about a cow or religion. When spoken or written it means a person or a belief that has been respected for a long time. It has become sacred and people are then afraid or unwilling to criticise or question it. 

The idiom is based on the honor shown to cows in Hinduism. It is thought to have started in America in the early 20th century. Similar idioms are used in many other languages. Saying "holy cow!" when surprised may be another example.

An actual 'sacred cow' or 'sacred bull' is a real animal that is treated with sincere respect in specific religions and their celebrations. They cannot eat the meat of cows because they are sacred.

In Hinduism, cows are thought to be sacred, or deeply respected. Cows are seen as a 'caregiver' or maternal figure. One Hindu goddess, Bhoomi (भूमि), is usually shown in the form of a cow. She represents the Earth. Most Hindus respect cows for their gentle nature, and cows also represent strength. Hindus who eat meat will avoid eating [cow meat]. 

There is a festival to thank cows for serving farmers for agriculture, This festival is called as "Mattupongal" which is one among the four days of the grand Indian festival called the Pongal which is completely focused on thanking each and every agricultural implement.

In the Hindu tradition, cows are honored, garlanded and given special feedings at festivals all over India. One is the annual Gopastami festival, dedicated to Krishna and cows. 

The cow's nature is represented in Kamadhenu; the goddess who is the mother of all cows. In India, more than 3,000 institutions called Gaushalas care for old and infirm cows. According to animal husbandry statistics there are about 44,900,000 cows in India, the highest in the world. So while some old and infirm cows are treated in Gaushalas, the rest are generally abandoned at public places such as railway stations and bazaars.

Honoring the cow inspires in people the virtues of gentleness and connects them with nature. The cow gives milk and cream, yogurt and cheese, butter and ghee. The milk of a cow is believed to refine a person. The ghee (clarified butter) from the milk is used in ceremonies and in preparing religious food. Cow dung is used as fertilizer, as a fuel, and as a disinfectant in homes.


Murti

In Hinduism, a murti (also spelled murthi or murthy) usually means an image in which the Divine Spirit is expressed ('murta'). Hindus call the presence of God into the image so that they can communicate with him and receive his blessings.Hindus don't worship the murti or statue itself but the god who is present in their minds and souls. It can also be set up any where

Murtis sometimes are abstract, but almost always stone or metal images of God in a human-like form like Shiva or Ganesha, Rama or Krishna, Saraswati or Kali. Murtis are made according to strict prescriptions and then installed by highly trained priests through a ceremony. The priests can then call on God in the image daily.

Murtis in Hindu temples and shrines are a mystical form of communication with God and devas. This is similar to our ability to communicate with others through the telephone. One does not talk to the telephone; rather the telephone is a way to interact with another person. Without the telephone, one could not have a conversation across long distances; and without the sanctified image in the temple, one cannot easily talk with the Deity.

The image or murti of worship is a focus for prayers, although Hindus can see God is in all things, in stone and water, fire, air and ether, in the enlightened person of a satguru and inside their own soul. Some temples do not have any murti in the sanctum but a symbolic diagram. Some Hindu branches reject the worship of images.

In Hinduism, one of the highest achievements is when one goes beyond the need of all form and symbol. This is the yogi’s goal obtained through meditation. Hinduism is also one of the religions that uses more symbols to represent God in preparation for getting beyond them.

Image worship appears to be an intelligent, mystical practice shared by all of the world’s great religions. All religions have their symbols of holiness: the Christian cross, or statues of Mother Mary and Saint Theresa, the holy Kaaba in Mecca, the Sikh Adi Granth enshrined in the Golden Temple in Amritsar, the Arc and Torah of the Jews, the image of a meditating Buddha, the totems of indigenous and Pagan faiths, and the artifacts of the holy men and women of all religions. Any Christian respects the Bible and considers it sacred. His book and the Hindu’s murtis are similar in this way. 

Critics of image worship consider this practice "idolatry". People who practice idolatry believe that God is the material object itself. Instead, Hindus worship murtis to call on the presence of the spiritual God and then communicate with him.

Virtual memory

Virtual Memory is a way of managing memory which is a recent trend of technology used in computers. Hardware (the physical part of the computer, such as the CPU or graphics card) runs software. This software will need computer memory to run, and do what it needs to do. Most computers in use today can do more than one thing at a time, they run more than one application. This is known as multiprocessing. 

In this case, all the programs or applications that are running on the computer at a time share its resources. A computer does not have more processors or main memory (RAM) just because more programs run on it.

Virtual memory is the idea that the application "sees" a "block of memory" of a given size. The application can use this memory as it sees fit. This block of memory is "virtual" in the sense that it comes from different parts. Some of it may be in the main memory of the computer, but some may also be on disk. The CPU has a special part, called Arithmetic Logic Unit which does some of the translations between application memory and system resources. Modern operating systems also do a part of this work.

When a program tries to access a block of memory that is not in system memory, that program is stopped, and the block is loaded into system memory. What was in that part of the system memory is written to disk. This is usually called paging.

Certain computer systems, such as embedded systems, do not use virtual memory, because they need a very fast response time, or one that always stays the same. One of the problems is that with virtual memory it is difficult to predict the response time. An application that uses a part of memory which needs to be loaded from disk will have a different response time from one that does not. Therefore, virtual memory concept is not used in embedded systems. 

Bolshoi Theatre

The Bolshoi Theatre (Russian: Большой театр, Bol'shoy Teatr, Large Theater) is a world-famous theatre and opera company in Moscow, Russia, which gives performances of ballet and opera. It is in the centre of Moscow, near the Kremlin.

The Bolshoi Theatre began in 1776 when Empress Catherina II allowed Prince Pyotr Urusov to run theatrical performances. That theatre burned down and a new one was built in 1825. After that one burned down too, it was rebuilt and reopened in 1856. After that, no important repairs were made to the building for 150 years. By the beginning of the 21st century it was in a very bad state and in danger of falling down. Major repairs were started in 2005, and the theatre was re-opened in 2011.

At the time of the Communist Revolution (1917), the Bolsheviks thought the theatre represented the old tsars and everything that had been bad in Russia. They wanted to demolish it. Then they started to use it for their meetings. Lenin and Stalin both gave speeches there. The operas that were performed had to be ones that did not criticize the Soviet Union in any way


Guild

A guild is an association of craftspeople or merchants who control the practice of their craft in a town. 

Many groups of people started as guilds, including scholars, and religious guilds. Many modern organisations, like universities, started as guilds. However, the basic idea of a guild was to control the training and practice of a trade or business. In Europe, guilds were given authority by the monarch. New young members had to serve as apprentices to a master for a certain length of time (such as seven years). At the end they became full members of the guild, and could set up on their own, and take apprentices of their own. That is the way the European world worked up to and including the first part of the 20th century.

There were guilds of weavers and dyers in the wool trade, of masons and architects in the building trade. There were guilds of painters, blacksmiths, bakers, butchers, and so on. The Corporation of the City of London includes the "livery companies". These companies were originally guilds. The senior members of the livery companies choose the Lord Mayor of London, the sheriffs and certain other officers.

Guilds were common in the cities of the Middle Ages. After that, around 1700 to 1800 their influence lessened somewhat. Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Adam Smith were much opposed to the idea of guilds. They believed that guilds hindered economic development and free trade.

Delara Darabi

Delara Darabi (; September 29, 1986 - May 1, 2009) was a Iranian girl, who was sentenced to death at age of 17. She was convicted of murder, despite her highly probably innocence and was executed by hanging.

Her case raised controversy for a number of reasons:

Delara's sentence was upheld by Iran's Supreme Court. The only person who could commute the sentence is Iranian Head of Judiciary, Ayatollah Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi.

In January 2007, Delara attempted to commit suicide.

Darabi was kept in Rasht Prison. According to her family and attorney, she was severely beaten by prison guards and fellow prisoners and left with a broken arm. Conditions in prison were extremely poor, leading Delara to repeatedly file requests to be transferred to another prison with better sanitary and overall conditions. Her requests were not answered.

Darabi was also a talented painter, poet and pianist. Her paintings were exhibited in Tehran and, recently, in Amsterdam.

She was executed May 1, 2009.

There was a petition online to save Darabi. A similar petition was started by Miss Canada 2003 Nazanin Afshin-Jam for another Iranian minor, Nazanin Fatehi, who was also sentenced to death. After worldwide attention and over 350,000 signatures Nazanin Fatehi was finally found innocent and freed. Amnesty International has also made many public statements and a letter campaign about Darabi.

She was born in Rasht (Province of Gilan), where she was a high-school student before her arrest. She had three sisters: Elaheh (21-year old), Ghazale (19) and Sheida (8). Elaheh and Ghazale are college students. Her sisters were also born in Rasht.


Freestyle football

Freestyle football is a sport played by one person by kicking a football. Freestyle football is a new sport, which has become more popular in recent years. 

To play freestyle football, one needs skill to keep the ball off the ground. This is done by juggling the ball with one's feet. Many people can do this well. At the same time, they can add in more difficult tricks. The most famous trick is called 'around the world'. There are five or more different ways of doing 'around the world'. Freestyle football can be played anywhere, such as in the street or a park.


Croydon

Croydon is a large town in Greater London, southern England in the United Kingdom. It is south of London and is part of the London Borough of Croydon.

The town grew up from Anglo-Saxon times around a palace belonging to the Archbishop of Canterbury. In 1276 the archbishop allowed a weekly market to take place nearby and this date is taken as the founding of the town. The town grew in the eighteenth century as a stage coach stop on the way to the popular seaside town of Brighton from London. In the nineteenth century railways put the town only 15 minutes from London by fast train and it grew 23 times in terms of the number of people living there between 1801 and 1901.

Croydon is well known for having many places to go shopping, which includes two shopping centres called Centrale and the Whitgift Centre. A third one called Park Place is planned. Croydon has been rated the 20 best shopping area in the UK. It is also well known for holding a lot of offices for companies to let. The council wants to keep Croydon a big town by building more offices and entertainment facilities so a new place called the Croydon Gateway is planned. Purley Way, just west of Croydon, is a large retail park area which has many shops like Comet (which went in admin in 2012), Sainsbury's, McDonald's, IKEA, Argos, M&S, Boots along with a cinema and bowling alley.

Croydon is very easy to get to. There is a large bus station on the edge of Croydon, and three railway stations called East Croydon, West Croydon, and South Croydon.

Croydon is also served by Tramlink, a tram system, the only tram system in all of Greater London. It is the place where all four routes meet. They go to places like Elmers End and Beckenham in Bromley to the east, Wimbledon and Mitcham in Merton to the west, and Addington and Addiscombe to the south.

Addington

Addington is a village in the London Borough of Croydon in south London. Addington is home to many historical sites in Croydon, like Croydon Palace and the Addington Palace. St Mary's Church is also in Addington and is known for the cross commemorating five archbishops in the foreground. Before the tram system was introduced in 2000 connections to the town were very short with only a few buses to Croydon. 

New Addington is a town close by to Addington. Once there was only one school in the village and all the children went to it, now that school has been demolished.

Flag of India

The modern Flag of The Republic of India has three colours, which are placed horizontally. At the top is saffron, which signifies sacrifice and patriotism. In the middle is white, which stands for truth in word and actions and purity in our thoughts. At the bottom is green, which stands for life and prosperity. In the middle of the white is a blue wheel, which is called the Ashoka Chakra. It has 24 spokes and it stands for progress.The Chakra or the wheel also symbolizes the Power of the State governed by Dharma. It is also called the tiranga or tricolour. The flag was discovered by Venkayya Pingali. Moirang in Manipur is the first place in India where the National Flag of India was first hoisted. It was in this place where the INA War Museum and the INA Martyrs' Memorial Complex were developed to commemorate the contributions of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and his Indian National Army to the Indian Independence Movement.

Gandhi first in 1921, Congress spoke of their flag. The flag Pingali Venkayya, who had designed. There were two colours, red for the Hindus, and green for Muslims. Was in the middle of a cycle. For the other religions in the white paint was added. A few days before Independence, the Constituent Assembly national modified. The spinning wheel replaced by the Ashok Chakra Lee. The new flag of the country's second President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan explained again.

The national flag of India the top band of Saffron color, indicating the strength and courage of the country. The strip between the white is a symbol of peace and truth with Dharma Chakra. The lower green stripe fertility, growth and auspiciousness of the land exhibits. Built on the white strip cycle menstrual cycle says. Wheel of Dharma wheel of the law that says the third century BC Mauryan Emperor Ashoka built the Sarnath Temple was taken from. The Chakra intends to show that this is life in movement and death in stagnation.

Are estimated using the following transfer in Indian flag colors. In flag saffron, white, green and blue colors that HTML Arljilbi and Web colors in the (hexadecimal notation); CMYK equivalent; Dye color and Penton equal number.

Trevor Royle, The Last Days of the Raj, Cornet Books, Hodder and Stoughton, London, pg. 217)


Coat of arms of India

The Indian Emblem of India is the symbol of the Republic of India, formally called 'National emblem'. It has four lions. The idea for this coat of arms was taken from the Sarnath Lion Capital that was built by Indian emperor Ashoka. It's a pillar in the city of Sarnath. Ashoka built it around 250 BC using a single piece of polished sandstone. The symbol is invariably used on all types of currency notes, passports and coins of India. In the two dimensional view of this symbol, one can see 3 heads (the fourth being hidden from view). It was adopted on 26 January 1950, the day that India became a republic.

The lions represent royalty and pride. It also represents the currency. 

The wheel beneath the lions is called the Ashoka Chakra or Dharmachakra comes from Buddhism, representing Truth and Honesty. The horse and the bull probably stand for the Strength (Mental) of the people of India. There are four Ashoka Chakras in total around the emblem and two horses and bulls each.

The verse written below, Satyamev Jayate is a very popular and revered saying in the ancient language Sanskrit. It can be divided phonetically into three words - Satyam, which means truth, Ev or aev, that is, only and Jayate which means wins or won. The whole verse can be translated as, 'Only (the one who speaks) the truth will win or wins.' This verse describes the power of honesty and truth in society and religion. You can lie to your friends, family, but you cannot lie to God and yourself. Your conscience will forever be stained.

The verse can also be translated as 'The truth alone triumphs'. Meaning that even after all the lies and deceptions with which we have been fooled, the truth will finally emerge victorious.

Spanish Wikipedia

The Spanish Wikipedia (In Spanish: "Wikipedia en Español") is a Spanish-language edition of Wikipedia. Started in May 2001, it is the 9th-largest Wikipedia by article count. The Spanish Wikipedia has about articles. 

Crystal Palace

Crystal Palace is a place and former site of a landmark in London, England. The town is between the London Boroughs of Croydon, Bromley, Lambeth, Southwark and Lewisham. 

The town is home of the Crystal Palace television mast, a large aerial which receives television and radio signals so that people in London can hear or see the channels. The Croydon Transmitter was also put in Crystal Palace, so if something went wrong with the Crystal Palace Ariel this one could take over.

The space used to hold The Crystal Palace, a large building made mostly out of glass. It was called The Great Exhibition of 1851 and used to be in Hyde Park, but the palace was moved to Crystal Palace in 1854. People went to it for over seven decades. Sydenham Hill, where the Crystal Palace was, is one of the highest locations in London and the size of the palace made it easy to see from Central London. This led to the area around the building becoming known as Crystal Palace instead of Sydenham Hill. The palace was destroyed by fire on the 30 November 1936 and the site of the building and its grounds are now known as Crystal Palace Park and include an olympic sized swimming pool.

Crystal Palace Park is a large park in Crystal Palace, which is known across South London, mainly for the statues of the dinosaurs. There is also a stadium used for national athletics and a large sports centre. 

There is no town centre in Crystal Palace, as most of the area is covered by homes, although many people confuse Upper Norwood town centre (which has a Sainsbury's in it) as Crystal Palace. Anerley is also close by. There is a bus station on Crystal Palace Parade and there is a train station in Crystal Palace for Central London and Croydon.


Al-Askari mosque

Al-`Askarī or the `Askariyya Mosque/Shrine (Arabic: مرقد الامامين علي الهادي والحسن العسكري; transliterated: "Marqad al-Imāmayn `Alī l-Hādī wa l-Ħassan al-`Askarī") is a Shī`a Muslim holy site. It is in the Iraqi city of Samarra. Samara is 60 miles from Baghdad. It is one of the most important Shīite mosques in the world. It was built in 944. Its dome was destroyed in February 2006 (see al-`Askarī Mosque Bombing).

The remains of the tenth and eleventh Shī`a Imāms, `Alī l-Hādī and his son Hassan al-`Askarī, known as "the two "`Askarī"s" ("al-`Askariyyān"), rest at the shrine. It stands next to a shrine to the Twelfth or "Hidden" Imām, Muħammad al-Mahdī. The `Askariyya Shrine is also known as the "Tomb or Mausoleum of the Two Imāms", "the Tomb of Imāms `Alī l-Hādī and Hassan al-`Askarī" and "al-Hadhratu l-`Askariyya".

Also buried inside the Mosque are the remains of Hakimah Khatun, sister of `Alī l-Hādī, and of Narjis Khatun, mother of Muħammad al-Mahdi.

"Time" magazine reported at the time of the 2006 al-Askari mosque bombing that “al-Askari [is] one of Shi'ite Islam's holiest sites. Only the shrines of Najaf and Karbala are more important. Even Samarra's Sunnis hold al-Askari in high esteem. The expression 'to swear by the shrine' is routinely used by both communities".

The Imāms `Alī l-Hādī (also known as "an-Naqī") and Hassan al-`Askarī lived under house arrest in the part of Samarra that had been Caliph al-Mu'tasim's military camp ("`Askaru l-Mu'tasim"). As a result, they are known as the "`Askariyyān" ("Dwellers in the Camp"). They died and were buried in their house on Abī Ahmad Street near the mosque built by Mu'tasim. A later tradition attributes their deaths to poison.

The shrine around their tombs was built in 944 by the Hamdanid governor Nasīr ad-Dawla. It became a focus for pilgrims. It was developed and rebuilt several times in following centuries, including, in particular, by Arslan al-Basasiri around 1053 and by Caliph an-Nasīr li-Dīn Allāh in 1209.

Nasir ad-Din Shah Qajar undertook the latest remodelling of the shrine in 1868, with the golden dome added in 1905. Covered in 72,000 gold pieces and surrounded by walls of light blue tiles, the dome was a dominant feature of the Samarra skyline. It was approximately 20 metres in diameter by 68 metres high.

On February 22, 2006, at 6:55 a.m. local time (0355 UTC) explosions occurred at the mosque. The explosions destroyed its golden dome and severely damaged the mosque. Several men, one wearing a military uniform, had earlier entered the mosque. They tied up the guards there and set explosives, which resulted in the blast. Two bombs were set off by five to seven men dressed as personnel of the Iraqi Special forces who entered the shrine during the morning.

At around 9 a.m. on 13 June 2007, suspected al-Qaeda people destroyed the two remaining 36m-high golden minarets flanking the dome's ruins. No fatalities were reported. Iraqi police have reported hearing "two nearly simultaneous explosions coming from inside the mosque compound at around 9 a.m." A report from state run Iraqia Television stated that "local officials said that two mortar rounds were fired at the two minarets."


Hathor

Hathor was an Egyptian goddess. She was a cow goddess and was associated with the Milky Way. Hathor was the daughter of Ra.

There are still remains of Hathor's temple in Dendera, Egypt. Dendara was her most well known. Her temple is 37 miles away from Luxor. It is thought that the temple of Hathor was built and decorated between the second century B.C.E. and the first century C.E. It had two intricately designed columned halls with the head of the goddess Hathor engraved in to each of them. Additionally, several shrines were built on the flat roof of the temple. There was also an enclosed sacred lake where the priests and patients would bath in order to heal themselves and become pure. There was sacred treasure hidden in two underground rooms near the sanctuary. At her temple people would pray to her for good wealth. Overall, Hathor was a busy goddess, as were most of the other gods and goddesses.

In Egypt, Hathor was the goddess of love, beauty, dancing, music, and fertility. Hathor is one of the main goddesses. Hathor means "House of Horus". Before Hathor was the nice goddess she was the goddess of destruction. There was a myth that Ra ordered Isis (Sekmet) to go out and stop bad interdimensional beings and other forms of evil. She did this by channeling a supressed part of herself known as Sekmet. When days passed, Ra wanted Sekmet (Isis) to stop because the energies and frequencies she was giving out started messing with the weather, causing storms and fires but Sekmet was entranced. When she would not stop, Ra grabbed red wine and scattered it all over the land. Sekmet saw it and thought it was the blood of the people, coming out of the trance she thought she killed people so she went into a meditative state. After she slept for three days and woke up renewed, she didn't want to slay any more and became a new goddess, Hathor.

Hathor appeared in four different forms. In human form, Hathor had a cow head with two cow horns. She was represented as a cow because cows were highly valued animals. She wore a menat which was a special necklace. A menat is a heavy beaded necklace with a crescent shape in the front and a tall mushroom shaped piece in the back. In one of her animal forms, she was a cow with an ankh. An ankh was the symbol of life. Another of Hathor's animal forms was a fierce lion. Hathor's symbol was a cow with a sun disc. The ancient Egyptians drew her as the sky of the Milky Way. Hathor's titles include the Golden One, the Lady of Song, the Mistress of Maidens, and the Lady of the Sycamore. She had traveled to Greece from a horrible argument with the gods and goddesses, she was banished from the land, and she was so ashamed of herself, she became the goddess of beauty and love.

Hathor had a lot of power over Ancient Egyptians moods. Hathor had the power to bring laughter, happiness and joy. If she was far away the Egyptians mood would become miserable. Hathor very much enjoyed helping and changing others moods embracing them and loving them dearly. Hathor saw past the hell that was placed and granted Peace to all for eternity. Everyone then became their own Ptah.



Santorini

Santorini is an archipelago in the Aegean Sea. It is about north of Crete. The archipelago is made of five islands. The biggest of these is also called Santorini. Orther names for the archipelago, and the island are Thera or Thira. The archipelago formed around a caldera. 13.600 people live there. The island has been settled for a long time, there are archeologial sites dating to Minoan times, and to the paleolithic. The volcano erupted around 1500 BC, and may have wiped out the Minoan culture there. The island was later resettled. 

Samarra

Sāmarrā () is a town in Iraq. It is on the east bank of the Tigris in the Salah ad Din Governorate, 125 km north of Baghdad. In 2003, the town had an estimated population of 348,700 people. 

Samarra is a city of culture and heritage. Samarra is home to the Malwiya Mosque Minerat. In 836 CE, the Abbasid Caliph Al-Mu'tasim founded a new capital at the banks of the Tigris. Here he built extensive palace complexes surrounded by garrison settlements for his guards, mostly drawn from Central Asia and Iran (most famously the Turks).

Holy See

The Holy See (Latin: "Sancta Sedes", "holy seat") is the title for the office of the Bishop of Rome, that is, the Pope. 
The Holy See also means the Pope and the Roman Curia, the governing body of the Roman Catholic Church.

Every episcopal see is seen as holy and the Eastern Orthodox Church calls all of its sees "holy" or "sacred" (). "The Holy See" (definite singular) usually refers to the see of Rome, which is also called "the Apostolic See". While "Apostolic See" can refer to any see founded by any of the Apostles, the term is in this case refers to the see of the bishop seen as successor of Saint Peter, one of the Apostles.

Aside from Rome, the archiepiscopal See of Mainz, which was also of electoral and primatial rank, is the only other Western see that bears the title of "Holy See", although this usage is less common.

The Pope governs the Church through the Roman Curia. The Roman Curia consists of the Secretariat of State, nine Congregations, three Tribunals, eleven Pontifical Councils, and an assortment of offices that conduct church affairs at the highest level. The Secretariat of State, under the Cardinal Secretary of State, leads and supervises the Curia. The current Secretariat of State, Tarcisio Cardinal Bertone, acts as the Holy See's prime minister. Archbishop Dominique Mamberti, Secretary of the Section for Relations With States of the Secretariat of State acts as the Holy See's foreign minister. Bertone and Mamberti were chosen to hold these positions by Pope Benedict XVI in September 2006.

Among the most active of the major Curial institutions are the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which oversees church doctrine; the Congregation for Bishops, which coordinates the appointment of bishops worldwide; the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples, which oversees all missionary activities; and the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, manages international peace and social issues.

The Holy See is active in international organizations and is a member of the following groups:

The Holy See is also a permanent observer of the following groups:

The Holy See is an observer on an informal basis of the following groups:

The Holy See has a delegation to the Arab League in Cairo. It is also a guest of honor to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

The Holy See, not the Vatican City, maintains diplomatic relations with states (such as with the United Kingdom), and participates in international organizations. Foreign embassies are accredited to the Holy See, not to the Vatican City, and it is the Holy See that establishes treaties and concordats with other sovereign entities. When necessary, the Holy See will enter a treaty on behalf of the Vatican City.

Under the Lateran Treaty, the Holy See has extraterritorial authority over 23 sites in Rome and five Italian sites outside of Rome, including the Pontifical Palace at Castel Gandolfo. The same authority is granted by international law to the Apostolic Nunciature of the Holy See in a foreign country.




Tigris

The Tigris is a river in the Middle East. It is the eastern of two rivers that define Mesopotamia. Mesopotamia literally means "(the land) between the rivers". The other river is called Euphrates. The source of the river is in the Taurus mountains in Turkey. From there, it flows through Northern Kurdistan in Turkey and forms part of the border between Turkey and Syria. The remainder is in Iraq. 

The river is 1,900 kilometres (1,181 miles) long. It comes together with the Euphrates in the Shatt-al-Arab (which is called Arvand Rud in Persian). The Shatt-al-Arab flows into the Persian Gulf. The river had an important role in the development of civilization, as early farmers used water from the river to water their crops and produce more food.

Tawaret

In ancient Egyptian mythology, Tawaret (also "Taweret) "was the demon-wife of Apep, the first god of evil. She was often shown as a hippopotamus. Because female hippos are aggressive to protect their young, pregnant women wore amulets of Tawaret to protect their pregnancies.

Tawaret was a very popular goddess in the first Dynasty. She was, overall, the goddess who protected women during childbirth and pregnancy. In ancient Egypt, it was believed that if you wanted to live through childbirth it was necessary to pray to Tawaret.


Seshat

Seshat was the ancient Egyptian idea of knowledge, shown as a goddess. She became the goddess of writing, astronomy/astrology, architecture, and mathematics. When Thoth became the god of wisdom, Seshat was seen as his daughter, or sometimes, as his wife. In art, she was shown as a woman with a stylised papyrus plant above her head. This symbolised writing since the Egyptians wrote on a material that came from papyrus.


Apep

Apep in Egyptian mythology was an evil demon. He was associated with darkness and chaos. He was often shown as a snake.

Apep's name was often incorrectly defined as he who was "spat out". It was said that he had been formed by Neith, who had been the goddess of the ancient waters in the Ennead, from a length of spit she had spat at Nu, the god of the ancient waters in the Ogdoad. Some subsequent commentators speculated that Apep must have been an earlier creator, and chief god, thus explaining why he had so much anger towards Ra.

It was believed that Ra (the sun) each night passed into Duat and then battled with Apep, always winning except for certain days in which Ra is momentarily devoured, what the Egyptians saw as an eclipse.

Instead of being worshipped he was done the exact opposite and spat upon. Models would be made of wax and clay and then burnt, spat upon, and defaced. 

Apep was a fifty foot long snake. He was black, orange, and a little bit green. Apep was very strong. He symbolized darkness, storms, night, the underworld and death. Ramses sixth tomb depicted him, having nine heads, representing the souls he killed.
In some depictions he is shown being attacked by a cat. The cat represents Bast, the goddess of cats. Bast was Ra's 'Guardian', so to speak. Bast's job was to protect Ra on his trips through the Duat every night. this is how he became the physical description



Ville Valo

Ville Valo (born November 22, 1976) is a Finnish baritone singer and songwriter. He is the lead singer in the Finnish rock band HIM. He lives in Helsinki, Finland.


Prefix notation

Prefix notation is a mathematical notation. It is a way to write down equations and other mathematical formulae. Prefix notation is also known as "Polish notation". The notation was invented by Jan Łukasiewicz in 1920. He wanted to simplify writing logic equations.

When prefix notation is used, no grouping elements (like parenthesis) are needed.

With prefix notation, the function is noted before the arguments it operates on. 

Some CASIO calculators use prefix notation. Some programming languages that were influenced by lambda calculus, like LISP, use prefix notation.

Nephthys

Nephthys was a goddess with wide power and capacity, and she was often referred to as "The Excellent Goddess." 
She could also be dangerous, able to kill the enemies of the king with her fiery breath. In this capacity, she was considered a protector of the king. . <br>
Nephthys has a central role in the popular myths of Osiris; it is her magical powers that helps to resurrect his body, as well as to protect and nurture Horus while he is a child.<br>
She is in some contexts presented as a protector of the dead, in other as protecting the baboon-headed Hapi, one of the 4 canopic jars.<br>
In the Late Period, she became linked with the goddess, Anuket.
According to myth, Nephthys had four siblings. Her parents were Geb the god of the earth and Nut the goddess of the sky. She was the sister of Isis, Osiris, Horus, and sister/twin and consort of Seth. Nephthys was also the mother of Anubis, the jackal-headed one with black skin.

In the 19th Dynasty of the Ramesside Pharaohs, a temple of Nephthys called the "House of Nephthys of Ramesses-Meriamun" was built in the town of Sepermeru, midway between Oxyrhynchos and Herakleopolis, on the outskirts of the Fayyum and quite near to the modern site of Deshasheh.



Anuket

Anuket was the first ancient Egyptian goddess of the Nile river in areas like Elephantine Island, at the start of the Nile's journey through Egypt, and in nearby parts of Nubia. Her temple was built at the Island of Seheil. 

Since the god Khnum and goddess Satis were thought to be the gods of the source of the Nile, Anuket was believed to be their daughter. The Egyptians believed that the two tributaries in her area of the Nile were her arms. Because tributaries move quickly, she became associated with fast-moving things, like arrows, and the gazelle. 

In art, she was usually shown as a gazelle, or with a gazelle's head, and sometimes had a headdress of feathers.

When the Nile started its annual flood, the "Festival of Anuket" began. People threw coins, gold, jewelry, and precious gifts into the river, thanking Anuket for the life-giving water. The taboo that was held in several parts of Egypt of not eating fish, which were considered sacred, was lifted during this time. 


Proto-Indo-European language

The Proto-Indo-European language (PIE) is the ancestor of the Indo-European languages.

It is the best-understood of all proto-languages. It was put together by the methods of historical linguistics.

There are different ideas about when and where PIE was spoken. PIE may have been spoken as a single language. Then it began to separate, around 3700 BC. The exact date is not known. The most popular hypothesis for where it came from and how it spread is called the Kurgan hypothesis. In this theory, its origin is in the Pontic-Caspian steppe of Eastern Europe.

There is no direct evidence of PIE because it was never written. All PIE sounds and words are reconstructed from later Indo-European languages. The asterisk symbol is used to mark reconstructed PIE words, for example: *' 'water', *' 'dog', or *"" 'three (masculine)'. Many words in modern Indo-European languages seem to have come from such "proto-words" by regular sound changes, such as Grimm's law.

The vowels in commonly used notation are:

The corresponding consonants in commonly used notation are:

The following phonemes are generally accepted:

PIE had a "free pitch accent." That means that the stress of a word could happen on any syllable and could change even for related words. Different meanings of a word could be marked only with high or low pitch.

PIE was an inflected language: it had roots with suffixes. That basic root shape is often altered by the "ablaut", a system of regular vowel changes. An example of ablaut in English is the strong verb "sing", "sang", "sung" and the related noun "song".

Most Indo-European languages are synthetic. That means they have many morphemes per word. Morphemes may be combined to make complex words, as in German Root words may be put on "bound morphemes" to show their function, which are morphemes that appear only as part of a larger word.

Those methods were probably used often in PIE. Languages like English, which don't have a lot of combinations like that, come from earlier, more typical Indo-European languages. English comes from Anglo-Saxon, a Western Germanic language. The fact that English once was synthetic like German is shown by cranberry morphemes, which are so called because the "cran-" is a fossil of a word that no longer exists. Also, "mulberry" and "raspberry", where also the first syllable is a bound morpheme.

Because PIE was spoken a very long time ago, there are no texts anymore. Scientists have tried many times to make example texts for to show what it could be like. These are just educated guesses. People have tried for 150 years to make a single sentence in PIE, but this has not happened yet. Even so, such texts are still useful because they show what PIE might have looked like.

People have rewritten a text by Schleicher multiple times as an example text:

"Avis akvāsas ka"

Schleicher's reconstruction says that that the o/e vocalism was secondary. His version of PIE is more like Sanskrit than modern reconstructions are.

"Owis ek’wōses-kʷe"

Hirt introduced the o/e vocalist and some rather different consonants.

"The Sheep and the Horses"

Some of the differences between the texts are just different spelling conventions: w and u̯, for example, are only different ways to indicate the same sound, a consonantal u. However, many other differences happen because there are different ideas on the sounds and the structure of PIE.



Ptah

Ptah was the ancient Egyptian god of craftsmen and architects. Ptah is named in the Turin King List as the first of the eight legendary god-kings of Egypt.

In art, he is shown as a hairless, bearded mummified man, often wearing a skull cap, holding a djed or other large tool (which he is sometimes shown using during mummification ceremonies). He was believed to be married to Sekhmet.

Ptah was the local god of Memphis, one of the ancient capitals of Egypt. He is the parson of craftsmen, since it is believed that he invented the arts.

Kurt Waldheim

Kurt Josef Waldheim (21 December 1918 – 14 June 2007) was an Austrian diplomat and conservative politician. He was Secretary-General of the United Nations from 1972 to 1981, and President of Austria from 1986 to 1992.

Waldheim published an autobiography. During his campaign to become president in 1986, it became public that some statements in that biography were not true. These were about his past. Waldheim was an officer for Germany in the Second World War. He became an oberleutnant in the Wehrmacht. Waldheim participated in Operation Kozara in 1942. According to one post-war investigator, prisoners were often shot within only a few hundred meters of Waldheim's office and away at the Jasenovac concentration camp. Waldheim later said, "he did not know about the murder of civilians there".

A commission of several historians looked at the issue. They decided Waldheim had behaved as he should have done. They said he had not committed any war crimes. However, in his role of an officer, he must have known about the deportation of about 40.000 Jews into concentration camps. These transports were against the law. Thus, he was not allowed to travel to the United States any more.

In 1990, he had a success: Saddam Hussein held several foreigners as hostages at the start of the Second Gulf War. When Waldheim heard this, he went to Baghdad. Through talks he got Hussein to release the Austrian and the Swiss hostages. Both countries are neutral.

On June 14, 2007, Waldheim died of heart failure. 

Mop

A mop is a tool used for cleaning. It is usually pieces of cloth or a sponge attached to the end of a long stick.

A dry mop" is typically used to clean the floor, while a "wet mop" is used to remove dust."

The word (then spelled "mappe") was first used in English as early as 1496, but new designs and variations of the original mop designs have been introduced, from time to time. For example, American inventor Jacob Howe received U.S. patent #241 for a mop holder in 1837, and Thomas W. Stewart (U.S. patent #499,402) received a patent for a mop holder in 1893.


Pan (mythology)

Pan was the Ancient Greek god of pastures, flocks, the mountain wilds and rustic music. In Rome, he was called Faunus. He had the body of a satyr (legs of a goat and body of a human). He was also known to produce a sound called a "panic" that caused extreme pain to any who heard it, this sound is the origin of the English word panic. He was the lord of the wild and as such, all forest dwelling creatures answer to him, including (but not exclusively) satyrs, nymphs, and forest creatures.

Pan was commonly believed to be dead, as a passing sailor heard a call as he passed an island proclaiming "Tell them the great lord Pan is dead." The sailor spread the news, leading to the belief that he is dead, however some still believe that he lives on today, slowly dying as the wilds of the world are destroyed.


Hypothesis

A hypothesis is a proposed explanation for some event or problem. For a scientific hypothesis, the scientific method requires that one can test it.
In the early 17th century, Cardinal Bellarmine gave a well known example of the older sense of the word in his warning to Galileo: that he must not treat the motion of the Earth as a reality, but merely as a hypothesis.

Today, a hypothesis refers to an idea that needs to be tested. A hypothesis needs more work by the researcher in order to check it. A tested hypothesis that works may become part of a theory—or become a theory itself. The testing should be an attempt to prove that the hypothesis is wrong. That is, there should be a way to falsify the hypothesis, at least in principle if not in practice.

People often call a hypothesis an "educated guess".

Experimenters may test and reject several hypotheses, before solving the problem or reaching a satisfactory theory.

A 'working hypothesis' is just a rough kind of hypothesis that is provisionally accepted as a basis for further research. The hope is that a theory will be produced, even if the hypothesis ultimately fails.

Hypotheses are especially important in science. Several philosophers have said that without hypotheses, there could be no science. In recent years, philosophers of science have tried to integrate the various approaches to testing hypotheses (and the scientific method in general), to form a more complete system. The point is that hypotheses are suggested ideas, which are then tested by experiments or observations.

In statistics, people talk about correlation: correlation is how closely related two events or phenomena are. A proposition (or hypothesis) that two events are related cannot be tested in the same way as a law of nature can be tested. An example would be to see if some drug is effective to treat a given medical condition. Even if there is a strong correlation that indicates that this is the case, some samples would still not fit the hypothesis.

There are two hypotheses in statistical tests, called the null hypothesis, often written as formula_1, and the alternative hypothesis, often written as formula_2. The null hypothesis states that there is no link between the phenomena, and is usually assumed to be true until it can be proven wrong beyond a reasonable doubt. The alternative hypothesis states that there "is" some kind of link. It is usually the opposite of the null hypothesis, and is what one would conclude if null hypothesis is rejected. The alternative hypothesis may take several forms. It can be two-sided (for example: there is "some" effect, in a yet unknown direction) or one-sided (the direction of the supposed relation, positive or negative, is fixed in advance).



East Sutton

East Sutton is a parish (town) about southeast of Maidstone in Kent, England. It is small by number of houses but it is in a large area. East Sutton is home to a women's prison, a council estate of 16 houses and the church of St Peter's and Saint Paul's.

Town hall

A city hall or town hall is the headquarters of a city or town's administration and usually houses the city or town council, its associated departments and their employees. It is also usually the base of the city, town, borough or county mayor. 

In North America, a hall is labeled a "city" or "town" hall depending on the size of the municipality it serves. City halls are usually found in larger cities and town halls in smaller urban areas.

In the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong and many Commonwealth countries, "town hall" is the more common term. During the 1960s many of the older town halls were replaced by "Civic centres". The civic centre was a functional building, offices of the council only, without the art gallery or hall for cultural activities which were a feature of many of the older town halls.

"County hall" is used for the headquarters of County council administrations.

Spectrometer

A spectrometer is an optical instrument used to measure properties of light over a specific portion of the electromagnetic spectrum.

The independent variable is usually the wavelength of the light. 
The variable measured is most often the light's intensity but could also, for instance, be the polarization state. A spectrometer is used in spectroscopy for producing spectral lines and measuring their wavelengths and intensities. Spectrometer is a term that is applied to instruments that operate over a very wide range of wavelengths, from gamma rays and X-rays into the far infrared.

In general, any particular instrument will operate over a small portion of this total range because of the different techniques used to measure different portions of the spectrum. Below optical frequencies (that is, at microwave, radio, and audio frequencies), the spectrum analyzer is a closely related electronic device.

Spectrometers are used in spectroscopic analysis to identify materials. Spectroscopes are used often in astronomy and some branches of chemistry. Early spectroscopes were simply a prism with graduations marking wavelengths of light. Modern spectroscopes, such as monochromators, generally use a diffraction grating, a movable slit, and some kind of photodetector, all automated and controlled by a computer. The spectroscope was invented by Gustav Robert Georg Kirchhoff and Robert Wilhelm Bunsen.




Province of Carolina

The Province of Carolina was a British colony in North America from 1663 to 1729. It covered the present states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and a part of Florida. An argument over how the it would be governed led to its becoming the Province of North Carolina and the Province of South Carolina. Officially, these two provinces did not become separate colonies until 1729.

Adenosine diphosphate

Adenosine diphosphate (or ADP) is the chemical that plants make ATP from, during photosynthesis.
A chemical compound that can be converted to ATP with the addition of one phosphate group.

Tefnut

Tefnut was the ancient Egyptian goddess of water and fertility. She and her brother and husband, Shu, were created by Atum, Ra or Amun. Tefnut was the mother of Nut and Geb also she is associated with the lion. In art she is represent as a woman with head of the lion with Sun disc.

Tefnut, along with Shu, were the first deities created by Ra. She had other names, such as Tefenet and Tefnet. She was mainly in charge of moisture, but was also responsible for Order, Time, Justice, Heaven and Hell. She was very closely related to both the sun and the moon. She was known as both the left (moon), and right (sun): 'Eyes of Ra.'

Once Tefnut fled from Ra as a lioness, causing a great drought. Only Thoth could persuade her to return, so he went to Nubia and got her back. When she got back, there was great rejoice in all the temples. After that incident, Tefnut, normally wearing her fathers’ sun disk, was seen as a lioness, or a woman with a lions’ head. Very rarely ever again was she seen portrayed as a full woman. When Tefnut was in the royal court, she wore a crown made of sprouting plants. Sometimes she was seen lying horizontally between the ground and the sky. She was sometimes pictured with her husband, Shu, helping to hold up Nut. She cried with the pain, and when she cried, that made the ground fertilized.

Tefnut sat in judgment of the dead in the underworld. Tefnut wears her fathers’ sun disk, a symbol of power. She carries a scepter and wears an ankh, the symbol of life. As she was the goddess of moisture, she was also related to other deities of moisture and wetness. She was seen holding up the sky with her brother/husband Shu. As she was in charge of moisture, she held other roles as well. Some of them were: Order, justice, time, the weather,Heaven, and Hell. Above all, her main role was to bring moisture down on the ancient Egyptians.

Tefnut was worshipped in lion form in Leontopolis (May-ta-hut). Part of the city of Denderah (Iunet), was known as ‘The House of Tefnut.’ Some of Tefnut’s festival dates were the 20th of August, the day of satisfying the Hearts of the Ennead. Another festival date was the 29th of October, which was the day of Going Forth of Het-Hert and the Ennead. The last festival date was the 15th of November, the Ennead Feast in the House of Kay Heru and Wasir. Tefnut does not have any main centers of Worship, or any known temples dedicated to her.


Sobek

Sobek was the ancient Egyptian god of the Nile. In art, he was shown with the head of a crocodile. In temples to Sobek, live crocodiles were kept in pools to honor him.

Sobek was worshipped wherever the Nile was presenting difficulties. Sobek was the ancient Egyptian god of crocodiles and controlled the waters. Sobek’s role was to protect the pharaoh from evil but it differs with each person. He was the most popular god in Arsinoe (Crocodilopolis in Greek), and was considered the Lord of Faiyu (a place in Egypt).

One day when Sobek was in the Nile, he saw Osiris’ (who was murdered by Set, the god of chaos) body. He was so hungry he could not resist eating part of it. His tongue was cut off as a punishment, which is why crocodiles have no tongues in Egyptian myths. He also caught the sons of Horus when they were born.

Sobek was seen as a crocodile headed man or very rarely a plain crocodile. Egyptians mummified crocodiles in honor of Sobek. Crocodiles were treated like household pets and were adorned with anklets and other decorative jewels. In temples people kept sacred crocodiles because they thought that they were images of Sobek on earth. The sacred crocodiles were a big attraction, the Egyptian’s believed that if the crocodiles were fed and they accepted their food, you would receive blessings from the God Sobek.

Sobek was a friend of Horus. Sobek’s mother Neith was considered the sister of Isis, who was Horus’s mother. This made Sobek the cousin of Horus, which was a very important fact because Horus was a major God. In other myths, Sobek was allied with Set. Set was also sometimes thought of as Sobek's father.



Lucky Town

Lucky Town is an album by Bruce Springsteen. It was produced by Bruce Springsteen with Jon Landau and Chuck Plotkin. The album was recorded by Toby Scott and mixed by Bob Clearmountain. It was released in 1992 under the copyright of Bruce Springsteen and was distributed by Sony Music.

Bruce Springsteen plays all the instruments except the drums, which are played by Gary Mallabar.


Juli

Juli is a German rock/pop band from Gießen, Hesse. Its singer is Eva Briegel, guitarists Jonas Pfetzing and Simon Triebel, bassist Andreas "Dedi" Herde and drummer Marcel Römer. The band was made out of Sunnyglade in 2001.

Member

A member is a person who belongs to a group of people.

Member may also mean:

Dar es Salaam

Dar es Salaam (Arabic: دار السلام "Dār as-Salām") is the largest city in East Africa. It has a population of about 4,360,000 people. The city is also Tanzania's richest city. It is an important economic centre. 

Dar es Salaam was the capital city of Tanzania until 1996. Even though the capital was moved to Dodoma, Dar es Salaam is still the location of much of the country's government. It is also the capital of the Dar es Salaam Region. The city's name in Arabic means "Abode of Peace". Dar es Salaam was at one time called Mzizima. 

The population of Dar es Salaam is increasing at a rate of 4.39% each year. It is the 3rd fastest growing city in Africa and the 9th fastest in the world. The metropolitan area population is expected to reach 5.12 million people by 2020. 

This rate is far above the world average. Globally, the growth rate of the human population has been declining since a peak in 1962 and 1963 of 2.20% per annum. In 2009 the estimated annual growth rate was 1.1%.

Dar es Salaam's rapidly expanding population presents both significant challenges and opportunities. Infrastructure development has not kept pace with the population growth so there is significant resource pressure, especially on road networks and the national power grid. However, a sizeable population with a growing middle class continues to attract investment in areas such as retail (shopping malls), entertainment (cinemas) and communication (high speed internet).

Dar es Salaam is located on a large harbour on the Eastern Indian Ocean coast of Africa.

Dar es Salaam has a tropical savanna climate ("Aw" in the Koeppen climate classification). This is because it is very near the equator and the warm Indian Ocean. The city usually has hot and humid weather during much of the year. Each year the area has two rainy seasons. These are called 'the long rains' (in April and May) and 'the short rains' (in November and December). Nearly 1100mm of rain fall each year on the area.

In 1859, Albert Roscher of Germany became the first European to go to Mzizima ("healthy town"). In 1866 Sultan Seyyid Majid of Zanzibar gave it its current name. It is an Arabic phrase meaning "Haven of Peace". Dar es Salaam had much growth starting in 1887, when the German East Africa Company created a station there. 

The town's growth was because it was the administrative and commercial centre of German East Africa. It was also helped by the growth of industry caused by the Central Railway Line in the early 1900s.

German East Africa was captured by the British during World War I and its name was changed to Tanganyika. Dar es Salaam was still the territory's administrative and commercial centre. 

After World War II, Dar es Salaam had a period of rapid growth. Tanganyika became independent from colonial rule in December 1961. Dar es Salaam continued to be its capital. It remained the capital when in 1964 Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged to form Tanzania. However, in 1973, it was decided to move the capital to Dodoma. This has not yet been completed, and Dar es Salaam is still Tanzania's primary city.

National Hurricane Center

The U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC) is a department of the National Weather Service, and a component of the National Centers For Environmental Protection. It is responsible for tracking and forecasting the likely behaviour of tropical and subtropical cyclones, potential tropical cyclones, and disturbances. The NHC headquarters is in Miami, Florida.

When tropical storm or hurricane conditions are predicted within 48 hours on land, the center issues the proper watches through the news media and NOAA Weather Radio. When those conditions are expected within 36 hours, a warning will be issued. Although it is an organisation of the United States, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) has designated the NHC as Regional Specialised Meteorological Center for the North Atlantic and eastern and central Pacific Ocean. In other words, the NHC is the central source of information for all tropical cyclone forecasts and observations happening in these areas, whatever their effect on the US. The NHC does not come up with their own names, but the WMO comes up with the names instead.



Gaborone

Gaborone is the capital city of Botswana. It has a population of 231,626 people. Gaborone is one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa. Gaborone is on the Notwane River in the southeastern corner of Botswana. It is from the South African border.

The main campus of the University of Botswana is in the city. Gaborone's airport, Sir Seretse Khama International Airport, is Botswana's main international airport.

Before 1969, the city was known as Gaberones. Gaberones replaced Mafeking as the capital of the Bechuanaland Protectorate in 1965. Mafeking was outside the Bechuanaland Protectorate. It was in an area of South Africa. When the Protectorate became independent, Botswana needed a capital city that was inside the country. It had been thought that Lobatse would be the capital. It was later decided that they would create a new capital next to Gaberones, a small colonial administrative settlement.

The original name, Gaberones, is from Gaborone's Village. It was named after Chief Kgosi Gaborone of the BaTlokwa tribe. His village, now called Tlokweng, was just across a river from the "Government Camp" (colonial government headquarters). "Gabs" is still a common nickname for Gaborone. A newer nickname for Gaborone is G-City.

The centre of the city was constructed in three years. It includes Assembly buildings, government offices, a power station, a hospital, schools, a radio station, a telephone exchange, police stations, a post office, and more than 1,000 houses. Much of the city was in place for Independence Day on September 30 1966, when the county became independent of the United Kingdom. The first mayor of Gaborone was Rev J. D. Jones. The old Gaberones became a suburb of the new Gaborone, and is now known as "the Village".


Libreville

Libreville is the capital city of Gabon. It is the largest city in that country. The city has a population of 578,156 people. Libreville is a port on the Gabon River, near the Gulf of Guinea. It is a trade center for a timber region.

The Libreville International Airport, the headquarters for Air Gabon, is about north of the city.

The Mpongwé tribe lived in the area long before the French took control of the land in 1839. The city was founded (as Gabon) in 1843 as a trading station. Freed slaves were sent there from the ship L'Elizia. In 1848 it was named Libreville (French for "Freetown"). It was the chief port of French Equatorial Africa from 1934 to 1946.

Libreville was named in after Freetown. It grew slowly as a trading post and a minor administrative centre. It had a population of 31,000 when it became independent in 1960. Since independence, the city has grown more quickly. Nearly half the of the people of Gabon live in the city.

Sights in Libreville include the National Museum of Arts and Traditions, the French cultural centre, St Marie’s Cathedral, the carved wood church of St Michael, Nkembo, the Arboretum de Sibang and two cultural villages. Gabon's school of administration and school of law are in Libreville. The Omar Bongo University is also in Libreville.

The city is home to a shipbuilding industry, brewing industry and sawmills. The city exports raw materials such as wood, rubber and cocoa from the city's main port, and the deepwater port at Owendo.

Brahmaputra River

The Brahmaputra, also called Tsangpo in Tibet, is one of the main rivers in Asia. It has its origin in the Himalayas of Tibet. It flows through Tibet, India and Bangladesh. It is long. Massive flooding occurs when the ice melts in the Spring.

The Brahmaputra’s source is the Chemayungdung Glacier, which covers the slopes of the Himalayas.

It joins with the Ganges river and empties into the Bay of Bengal and also forms the Gangetic delta, which is the largest delta in India. 


Lilongwe

Lilongwe is the capital city of African country of Malawi. It lies in the center of the country on the Lilongwe river. It is near the border of Malawi, Mozambique, and Zambia. The city has a population of 597,619 people. Lilongwe is the second largest city in Malawi.

Lilongwe has a damp subtropical climate, bordering a subtropical highland climate (Köppen: Cwa), with pleasantly warm summers and mild winters. Due to its altitude, temperatures are lower than other cities located in the tropics. Lilongwe has a short wet season from December to March and a long dry season during much of the rest of the year. However it has a strong rain season, with around during the wettest months.
The city started as a small village on the banks of the Lilongwe river. It became a British colonial administrative centre at the beginning of the 20th century. In 1974, the capital of the country was moved from Zomba to Lilongwe. Recently, as part of a change in politics in Malawi, the parliament has been moved to Lilongwe. All parliament members must spend time in the new capital. Lilongwe is now the political centre of Malawi, but Blantyre the economic capital of the country.

Lilongwe is visited by Malawi Railways and Shire Bus Lines, local buses and minibuses go between Old Town, City Centre, Kamuzu International Airport, and other urban places, including Mzuzu and Blantyre.

People can get taxis from hotels and a taxi lane on Presidential Way, North of City Centre Shopping Centre. Most roads have a lot of traffic, so most Malawians prefer to, or can only afford to, walk or use a bicycle. There is also an airport, Kamuzu International Airport, which is about 35 km north of Lilongwe.

Shu (Egyptian god)

Shu was the ancient Egyptian god of dry air, and so was a calming and cooling influence. He was also like Atlas from Greek mythology—his job was to separate Nut and Geb

Shu had warlike traits like strength, speed and stamina and became associated with the pharaoh. He takes a human form wearing a plume (the hieroglyph of his name) on his head and with his arms raised supporting the sky-goddess. Nut to keep her apart from her consort the earth god Geb. Shu was described as dwelling in the sun's disk. He often appeared as a bearded man holding up the sky while protecting the earth. At times he was depicted as a lion or a human with a lion's head. At other times he wore four ostrich feathers. These feathers symbolized the four columns that held up the sky when Shu himself was not there to do the job. When in his role as god of light, Shu carried a sun disk.

"That is my daughter, the living female one, Tefnut, who shall be with her brother Shu. Life is his name, Order is her name. [At first] I lived with my two children, my little ones, the one before me, the other behind me. Life reposed with my daughter Order, the one within me, the other without me. I rose over them, but their arms were around me." Was a hymn to Shu. Ancient Egyptians prayed to him for a good life and prayed to him for light. People worshipped Shu in prayers, hymns, and in a chapel. People gave him offerings. Shu appeared in tombs and temples. He was a well known god.

Shu belongs to the cosmic deities and as such no temples were dedicated to him. Cosmic deity's were never worshipped in a personified form, therefore there was no need for temples to worshipped them. A chapel was built to Shu, Atum, and Tefnut. No festivals has been historically verified Shu was worshipped through prayers and gatherings.
Shu was the god of the water, light, wind, and the atmosphere. He was also the god of dry air. Shu's name meant "dryness" or "emptiness". Shu was mentioned in Coffin Texts and Pyramid Texts, but is not well known outside these religious texts until after the New Kingdom. During this time period, Shu became connected with the gods Onuris, Khonsu, and Soptu, and was worshipped along with them in their people. He was praised by some and not by others.

Ra created Shu. He was created when Ra said, “Shu the moisture”, and then Shu was sneezed out of Ra’s nostrils. There are many creation myths about how Ra was born. For example, an egg that hatched created Ra. Shu was one of the first deities.


Malabo

Malabo is the capital city of Equatorial Guinea. It is on the northern coast of Bioko Island. The number of people living there has grown quickly over the past ten years to about 100,000.

Notable buildings in Malabo include Malabo Cathedral and the Malabo Court Building. The city is served by Malabo International Airport, while ferries sail from its port to Douala and Bata.

The city was first founded by the British in 1827. They paid Spain for use of the island during colonial times. The British named the city Port Clarence. It was used as a naval station help stop the slave trade. Many newly freed slaves settled there before the creation of Sierra Leone as a colony for freed slaves. While many of them later moved to Sierra Leone.

When the island returned to Spanish control, Malabo was renamed Santa Isabel. It replaced the town of Bata as the capital of the country in 1969. The city was renamed Malabo in 1973 because President Francisco Macías Nguema wanted to replace European place names with "authentic" African ones.

Multimedia

Multimedia is communication that uses more than one type of information content (e.g. text, audio, graphics, animation, video) to inform or entertain the audience (user). "Multimedia" also means the use of electronic media to store and experience multimedia content.
Multimedia means that computer info can be represented through audio, graphics, image, video and animation in addition to traditional media (text and graphics).

Multimedia Making it Work, by Tay Vaughan, Published by Osborne McGraw Hill 1993 


Shield volcano

""Shield volcanoes" redirects here."
A shield volcano is a large volcano with shallowly-sloping sides. The name derives from a translation of "Skjaldbreiður", an Icelandic shield volcano whose name means "broad shield," from its resemblance to a warrior's shield. 

Shield volcanoes are usually formed by lava that flows easily. Consequently, a volcanic mountain having a broad profile is built up over time by flow after flow of relatively fluid basaltic lava issuing from vents or fissures on the surface of the volcano. Many of the largest volcanoes on Earth are shield volcanoes. 

The largest is Mauna Loa on the Big Island of Hawaii. Shield volcanoes can be so large they are sometimes considered a mountain range, such as the and the Rainbow Range, both of which are in Canada. These shield volcanoes formed when the North American Plate moved over a hotspot similar to the one feeding the Hawaiian Islands, called the Anahim hotspot. There are also shield volcanoes, for example, in Washington, Oregon, and the Galapagos Islands. The Piton de la Fournaise, on Réunion Island, is one of the more active shield volcanoes on earth, with one eruption per year on average.

Shield volcanoes are known to form on other planets. The largest known mountain in the solar system, Olympus Mons on Mars, is a shield volcano. Shield volcanoes on Mars are higher and much more massive than those on Earth. 

On Earth, because of plate tectonics, hotspot volcanoes eventually move away from the source of their magma and the volcanoes are individually less massive than might otherwise be the case. Shield volcanoes usually occur along constructive boundaries or above hotspots. However, the many large shield volcanoes of the Cascade Range of northern California and Oregon are over a more complex environment.

Shield volcanoes are not only found on Earth, they can also be found on Mars, Venus, and Io, which is a moon of Jupiter. The volcanoes on Mars are bigger than those on Earth.




Caldera

A caldera is a volcanic feature formed by the collapse of land surface after a gigantic volcanic eruption. In such an eruption the volcano's magma chamber is empty enough for the ground above it to drop.

A caldera may look like a volcanic crater except that a crater is made by blasting outward, not by collapsing inward. The word "caldera" comes from the Portuguese language, meaning "cauldron". Some complex features are made by both processes.

When Yellowstone Caldera last erupted some 650,000 years ago, it released about 1,000 km of material, covering much of North America in debris up to two metres thick. By comparison, when Mount St. Helens erupted in 1980, it released 1000 times less material.

The ecological effects of the eruption of a large caldera can be seen in the record of the Lake Toba eruption in Indonesia.

About 75,000 years ago, the Toba catastrophe released about 2,800 km of ejecta. This was the largest known explosive eruption within the last 25 million years. In the late 1990s, anthropologist Stanley Ambrose suggested that a volcanic winter induced by this eruption reduced the human population to about 2,000 20,000, resulting in a population bottleneck. Others suggested that the human race was reduced to about five to ten thousand people. 
However, there is no direct evidence that the theory is correct and some evidence that it is not.

Eruptions forming even larger calderas are known. At La Garita Caldera in the San Juan Mountains of Colorado, the 5,000 km Fish Canyon Tuff was blasted out in a single major eruption about 27.8 million years ago.

At some points in time, rhyolitic calderas have appeared in distinct clusters. The remnants of such clusters may be found in places such as the San Juan Mountains of Colorado (formed during the Oligocene, Miocene, and Pliocene periods) or the Saint Francois Mountain Range of Missouri (erupted during the Proterozoic).


Addiscombe

Addiscombe is an area in Croydon, in the London Borough of Croydon, England. Three hundred years ago, Addiscombe was a rural area. The area was mainly used for farming and brick-making. There used to be a railway that went through Addiscombe, but in 2000, it was changed to tramlink tracks and a new stop was built.


South Norwood

South Norwood is an area in south-east London in the London Borough of Croydon, England. It is one of four places in London called Norwood, Norwood New Town, West Norwood and Upper Norwood are the others. There are around 14,590 people living in South Norwood alone. SE25 is the postcode for the area.

Norwood Junction train station is the station which serves most of South Norwood, to Central London. There are two secondary schools in South Norwood called, Harris Academy South Norwood (was Stanley Technical High School) and the other being Harris Academy Crystal Palace. There are also a lot of primary schools in the area. 

The writer of the Sherlock Holmes stories lived in South Norwood on Tennison Road from 1891 to 1894. One of his stories was about the area. In 1966, a dog called Pickles discovered the World Cup Jules Rimet Trophy under a bush farther up in Beulah Hill.

South Norwood Country Park is a large green space and nature reserve in South Norwood, it was the site of a former sewage farm which was made for the growing population of London. Croydon Sports Arena which holds games for Kent League team Croydon Football Club "(Croydon F.C.)". Crystal Palace F.C. play at Selhurst Park in Norwood. The team, for the 2007-08 season are in the Championship.

Software bug

A software bug is a problem with the code in a computer program which makes it not work properly. They can cause inconvenience to the user and may make their computer crash or freeze. Most computer programs have bugs. A program that has a large number of bugs (or possibly a single or a few serious bugs) is said to be buggy.

Most bugs are caused by bad programming by the developer, but sometimes they can be caused by compiler problems. When bugs are found, people send bug reports to the developer to tell them about the bug and let them fix it.

Sometimes, people say that their computer has a bug when something is wrong with it. The problem is usually caused by a computer virus which is making their computer slow or do different things.

Some bugs are harmless, for example, many video games incorrectly allow objects to move through walls. Other bugs are more severe, for example, a bug in a navigation system that causes an airplane to explode, or the two bugs in the Therac-25 radiation therapy machine's control software, which caused it to produce far more radiation than intended, killing at least three people.

A buffer overflow happens when a program writes to or reads from an area of memory that it is not supposed to access.

An arithmetic overflow happens when a number contained in a variable is increased beyond the highest number that the variable allows. This will usually cause the number to reset back to zero.

An infinite loop happens when a program enters a loop (a series of instructions that is repeated many times) and there is no way out of the loop. This can cause the program to freeze.

If a floating point variable doesn't have enough precision, the number stored in it can be inaccurate. This can cause various problems depending on the type of program, for example it could cause a navigation program to navigate to an unintended location, or distorted sound in an audio recording program.

Division by zero is an invalid math operation. If a program divides an integer by zero, it will crash. On Linux, the message displayed when this bug occurs is "floating point exception", even though floating point numbers were not involved. Floating point math sometimes allows division by zero. This will usually result in a special "not a number" value.

In video games, clipping problems, also called collision detection problems, occur when an object passes through a barrier (such as a wall, floor, or ceiling) that it was not intended to pass through. This is a very common bug found throughout many video games. This can happen, for example, in Doom 2 when a crushed monster is resurrected by an arch-vile. Clipping problems can often be used as a time-saving tactic in speedruns, for example, in Super Mario 64 it is possible to skip walking up the spiral staircase in the castle by jumping through the ceiling.

Security bugs are bugs that allow an intruder to either gain access to the computer, or cause the computer to crash. Causing the computer to crash is called a denial-of-Service attack. Security bugs are considered especially important to fix because they might allow intruders to steal important information such as credit card numbers or passwords. Examples of security bugs include Heartbleed and Shellshock.

A misbug is a bug that has been used as a feature. An example would be a bug in an Android phone that allows users to gain root access.

Some bugs affect hardware (the physical parts of a computer) instead of software. For example, running the instruction codice_1 on old Pentium processors would cause the processor to stop working until rebooted. Since hardware bugs are physical design flaws, they can not be corrected with a software update, although it may be possible to work around (hide) the bug with a software update, for example, by checking for the conditions that cause the bug or by rearranging data in a way that prevents the bug from occurring.


Telephone tapping

Telephone tapping or wire tapping/wiretapping is when somebody listens to another person's telephone calls. They usually use a listening device called a "bug" to listen to and record the conversation so that another person can then listen to it later.

This is illegal in many countries, including the UK and US because it means that telephone calls are not private. Sometimes, the police need to 'tap' into telephone calls to catch terrorists or other criminals. Evidence from illegal tops may be used in criminal trials in some countries. 


Sara Paxton

Sara Paxton (born April 25, 1988, California) is an American actress and singer. She is best known for her role as Mari Collingwood in "The Last House on the Left". She is also known for acting in the movies, "Aquamarine", "Halloweentown 3". She has starred in her own television show called "Darcy's Wildlife". Her, mother is a Mexican Jew and her father, is an American who converted to Judaism when marrying her mother.


Lipstick

Lipstick is a type of cosmetic used on the lips. It is used to make the lips shiny or to color them.


Lip gloss

Lip gloss is a cosmetic. It makes lips shiny. Lip gloss can also have shimmer, tints, glitter and flavor.


Mbabane

Mbabane is the capital city of the African country of Eswatini. It is on the Mbabane River and the Polinjane River in the Mdimba Mountains. The city is in the district of Hhohho and is also the district capital. The city has an estimated population of 70,000 people.

The town grew after the country's administrative centre moved there from Manzini in 1902. It is also the commercial center for the surrounding region. Tin and iron are mined nearby.

siSwati is the main language of the city but many people also speak English. The economy of Mbabane, like the country as a whole, is based on tourism and sugar exports.

Pentecostalism

Pentecostalism is a faith within Evangelical Christianity. It believes in a personal experience with God through the baptism of the Holy Spirit (); the same as in the Biblical account on the Day of Pentecost. Pentecostalism is similar to the Charismatic groups, but it came about earlier and separated from the main church branches. Charismatic Christians, at least in the beginning, tended to stay in their denominations and did not divide away.

There are different types of Pentecostal churches. Most believe that people must be saved by believing in Jesus as their Savior; to be forgiven for their sins and to be pleasing to God. Pentecostals also believe, like most other evangelicals, that the Bible is true and must be obeyed in decisions of faith. Some groups say speaking in tongues is the sign of the Baptism of the Holy Spirit and is not required for salvation. Some say the Baptism of the Holy Spirit is a supernatural gift for ministry that people receive after they have become a Christian.

Other groups believe in an "" based salvation. This means a person needs to repent and be baptized in the name of Jesus. They then receive the Holy Spirit (Holy Ghost). In this belief, the Holy Spirit is required for salvation; which includes speaking in tongues. Some Pentecostal churches baptize in the name of Jesus only, and some baptize in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost or spirit.

Pentecostal churches believe that Jesus still heals the sick, with the power of the Holy Spirit. They also believe in other gifts such as speaking in tongues, interpretation of tongues, supernatural knowledge, mainly about sickness or spiritual matters, and prophesy about future spiritual happenings. Many also practice exorcism, that is, casting out evil spirits.

See also: List of Christian denominations by number of members This list indicates that there may be 150 million Pentecostals. The largest Pentecostal denominations are:

While not as large as some of the above organizations the following have made quite an impact on Pentecostalism:


Sources:

"Operation World" by Patrick Johnstone and Jason Mandryk, 2000, unless otherwise indicated.






Pentecost

Pentecost meaning "the 50th day" in Greek), also called Whitsun, Whitsunday, or Whit Sunday in the United Kingdom and other English-speaking areas, is a holiday and season in the Christian liturgical year. It is the 50th day after Easter (and the 10th day after Ascension Thursday). It is to remember the coming of the Holy Spirit to the Apostles and other followers of Jesus as described in the book of Acts in the Bible, as Jesus had promised after he rose from the dead. About 3,000 people were baptized that day, which to many, makes it the real start of the Christian Church.



Trust

Some people lie and lie. While others risk the chance to be angrier at them to have trust. Trust is a trait this is earned. It can be powerful. But you can lose it easily.

Trust may refer to:

In personal relations (social sciences):




Niamey

Niamey is the capital city of the African country of Niger. It is Niger's largest city. The city is on the Niger River. Niamey is the administrative, cultural and economic center of the country. 

The city is in a pearl millet growing region. Manufacturing industries in the city include bricks, ceramic goods, cement and weaving.

Niamey was probably founded during the 18th century. It was of little importance until the French created a colonial post there in the 1890s. The city grew quickly after that happened. In 1926, it became the capital of Niger. The number of people grew slowly from about 3,000 people in 1930 to around 30,000 in 1960, 250,000 in 1980 and 675,000 in 2002. The major cause of the increase has been immigration during droughts.

Things to see in the city include the Niger National Museum. The museum includes a zoo, a museum of vernacular architecture, a craft centre, and displays including dinosaur skeletons and the Tree of Ténéré. The city also has American, French and Nigerien cultural centres, two major markets, and a traditional wrestling arena .

The city is the site of Diori Hamani International Airport, the National School of Administration, and Abdou Moumouni University of Niamey.

Basic Roman

The Basic Roman spelling of English is a 2002 proposal for regular English spelling. It is based on five principles:

The Basic Roman system serves no particular standard of English pronunciation. Instead, it gives one way to spell the different varieties of English. The system uses 22 Roman letters to represent the set of English phonemes considered by J.C. Wells. The letters ‘j’, ‘q’, ‘w’ and ‘x’ are not used (letters ‘j’ and ‘w’ are used in an extended version of the Basic Roman spelling, see below).

By way of illustration, the following reference text by V. Yule is given in traditional spelling and in Basic Roman (shown is the non-rhotic version; in the rhotic one, relevant words like ‘daughter’, ‘heart’, ‘pictures’ etc. are spelled ‘dootar’, ‘haart’, ‘pikcharz’ etc.):

A more elaborate version of the system is the Extended Basic Roman spelling of English, which uses also the letters ‘j’ and ‘w’, and has two specific two-letter combinations for the English voiced and voiceless dental fricatives. The above sample text would appear in Extended Basic Roman (non-rhotic version) as follows:

Apart from respelling of English, the Basic Roman could also be used as the target spelling of a universal algorithm for the designing of superior, user-friendly Romanization systems transliterating and transcribing a variety of languages. This ‘streamlined approach’ has been successfully tested in the case of Bulgarian language, with the 1995 Streamlined System for the Romanization of Bulgarian becoming established in Bulgaria (eventually codified in a 2009 law), and adopted also by UN in 2012, and for official US and UK use by BGN and PCGN in 2013. Recently this approach has been used to design the 2017 Streamlined System for the Romanization of Russian aimed at replacing the plethora of systems currently occurring in the non-academic practice of transliteration of Russian Cyrillic.

The Extended Basic Roman is close to one-to-one phoneme-grapheme correspondence, paving the way to a pronunciation respelling for English by means of the closely related Roman Phonetic Alphabet for English.

The Roman Phonetic Alphabet for English is a system based on the Extended Basic Roman spelling of English. It includes two pairs of stress marks which disambiguate words which share the same spelling but have different meanings. This is to get a one-to-one phoneme (sound)–grapheme (spelling) correspondence. The system has certain similarities to the systems of the NBC Handbook of Pronunciation, the Carnegie Mellon version of Arpabet alphabet, and the World Book Dictionary.

Primary stress is indicated by the mark <’>, respectively <”> in the case of \\ and \\. Secondary stress is shown by <,> and <„> respectively. Stress marks are placed before the syllables concerned.

By way of illustration, the following reference text by V. Yule is given in traditional English spelling and in Roman Phonetic Alphabet transcription (non-rhotic version):



Wadjet

Wadjet is a goddess in Egyptian mythology. She was often shown in art as a cobra and was the protector of lower Egypt. Later, she became the protector of kings. Her worship was already established by the Predynastic Period, but did change somewhat as time progressed. She began as the local goddess of Per-Wadjet (Buto) but soon became a patron goddess of Lower Egypt.


Buto

Buto or Butos or Butosos, was the later, Greek name for an ancient Egyptian city 95 km east of Alexandria in the Nile Delta of Egypt. It is the modern "Kem Kasir".

Buto originally was two cities, Pe and Dep, which merged into one city that the Egyptians named Per-Wadjet. The goddess Wadjet was its local goddess, often represented as a cobra, and she was considered the patron deity of Lower Egypt.

The city was an important site in Ancient Egypt since more than ten thousand years. Archaeological evidence shows that Upper Egyptian culture replaced the Buto-culture at the delta when Upper and Lower Egypt were unified.

The Greek historians told that town was celebrated for its temple and oracle of the goddess Wadjet.
They also told that at Buto there was also a sanctuary of Horus.

Scribe

A scribe is an ancient occupation. A scribe's job involved reading and writing, especially during the Renaissance. Being a scribe meant writing letters, and historical records for kings, nobility, and temples. It was an important job when few people could read and write. Later, it changed into being secretaries, clerks: public servants, journalists, accountants and lawyers. Today, there are no scribes, but there are still authors and writers.

The Ancient Egyptian scribe was an important job. Ancient Egypt also had its painters and artisans who decorated tombs, buildings, furniture, statues, and other relics with pictures and hieroglyphics. In Ancient Egypt, only males could be scribes. This was so in many civilisations, because most official positions were exclusively male.
The scribes had to be able to write not only the hieroglyphs, but also the hieratic (priestly) script, and they had to know arithmetic. They used a type of paper called papyrus, made from reeds, and wrote with reed pens and ink.



Ascension

Ascension is a Christian holiday. The word "ascension" means "going up". According to the story told in the Bible, Jesus ascended (went up) to heaven. This was seen by his apostles. The holiday is celebrated forty days after his resurrection. The story tells that Jesus' body went to heaven, and that in heaven he sits at the right-hand side of God the Father.

Ascension Day is officially celebrated on a Thursday. However, not all countries hold the feast on this day. It is one of the ecumenical feasts. All Christians celebrate this feast, much like Easter and Pentecost. It is a very important feast in the calendar of the Christian Church.

In some countries (at least in Austria, Belgium, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (since the 1930s), Haiti, Iceland, Indonesia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Namibia, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Vanuatu) it is a public holiday; Germany also holds its Father's day on the same date. 

The Eastern Orthodox Church calculates the date of Easter differently, so the Eastern Orthodox celebration of Ascension will usually be after the western observance (either one week, or four weeks, or five weeks later; but occasionally on the same day). The earliest possible date for the feast is May 13 (of the western calendar), and the latest possible date is June 16. Some of the Oriental Orthodox Churches, however, observe Ascension on the same date as the Western Churches.

The feast is observed with an all-night vigil.

The Epistle to the Romans is a book from the Bible which was written about the year 56 or 57. In it, Paul describes Christ as in heaven and in the abyss. This seems to be the earliest Christian reference to Jesus in heaven.

One of the most important texts about the "Ascension" is in the Acts of the Apostles . According to the two-source hypothesis it is also the earliest. There Jesus is taken up bodily into heaven forty days after his resurrection. The text says that the apostles saw this happening. Before going into heaven, Jesus gave a speech called the Great Commission, in which he said that he would return. In the Gospel of Luke, the "Ascension" takes place on Easter Sunday evening. The Gospel of John (c. 90-100) talks about Jesus returning to the Father. In 1 Peter (c. 90-110), Jesus has ascended to heaven and is at God's right side. Ephesians (c. 90-100) refers to Jesus ascending higher than all the heavens. First Timothy (c. 90-140) describes Jesus as taken up in glory. The traditional ending in the Book of Mark (see Mark 16) includes a short version of what Luke had said about the resurrection. It describes Jesus as being taken up into heaven and sitting at God's right hand. The way that Christ's Ascension is described is similar to the general description of his welcome in heaven, a description that comes from Hebrew scripture. The picture of Jesus rising bodily into the heavens fits in with the old traditional idea that heaven was above the earth.

There are texts that are not in the Bible that also speak about ascension, for example "Pistis Sophia".
In his text "Against Heresies", Irenaeus tells about the Gnostic view that the Ascension happened eighteen months after the Resurrection. The apocryphal text known as the "Apocryphon of James" describes the teachings of Jesus to James and Peter 550 days after the resurrection, but before the ascension. This text suggests an even longer period. The recently discovered Nag Hammadi "Gospel of Thomas", like the canonical Gospel of Matthew, does not mention the Ascension.

The feast of the Ascension has been celebrated for many centuries. Although we do not have anything in writing about it before the beginning of the fifth century, St. Augustine says that it is of Apostolic origin, and he speaks of it in a way that shows that all Christians celebrated it long before his time (he lived from 354 to 430).

"Christ's ascension" is mentioned in the original Nicene Creed. This text has been important to Christians ever since it was made in 325. It is included in the Mass. It is also mentioned in the Apostles' Creed. It is important for Christian belief because it shows that Jesus' humanity was taken into Heaven. "Ascension Day" is one of the chief feasts of the Christian year. There is plenty of evidence that shows that the feast dates back at least to the later 300s.

The canonical story of Jesus ascending bodily into the clouds is different from the gnostic tradition, by which Jesus was said to transcend the bodily world and return to his home in the spirit world. It also contrasts with Docetic beliefs, by which matter is basically evil and Jesus was said to have been pure spirit.

Scholars of the historical Jesus think that New Testament accounts of Jesus' resurrection were stories that were invented by the apostolic-era Christian community. Some describe the Ascension as a convenient way to disagree with ongoing appearance claims in the Christian community.


Need for Speed

Need for Speed, also known by its initials NFS, is a racing video game franchise, made by Electronic Arts and developed by several studios including EA Black Box, Criterion Games and Ghost Games.

These are the games of the series:

ATP

ATP may refer to:

Jeanne Calment

Jeanne Louise Calment (21 February 1875 – 4 August 1997) was a French supercentenarian and at the time of her death at age 122 years, 164 days the verified oldest person in history as well as the only person who has surpassed 120 years of age, although her claimed age is possibly disputed.

On 17 October 1995, Calment reached 120 years and 238 days to become the "oldest person ever" according to Guinness World Records, surpassing Shigechiyo Izumi of Japan, whose claim (120 years 237 days old at the time of his death on 21 February 1986, Calment's 111th birthday) has since been discounted. Calment also holds the record for being the oldest living person for the longest period of time, by far – with nearly nine years and seven months, counting from the death of Florence Knapp on 11 January 1988, to her own death on 4 August 1997.

She was the last remaining undisputed person born in the 1870s. On 12 July 1995, Tane Ikai of Japan died, and Calment became the last living link from the 1870s. Following Calment's death on 4 August 1997 at 10:45 CET, then 116-year-old Marie-Louise Meilleur became the oldest living recognized person.

She was active during her life, lived on her own until she was almost 110, and talked a lot until months before her death. Calment still rode her bike at the age of 100 in 1975. Once, she fell off and developed a brief period of amnesia. She recovered sometime later. In 1888, when she was 13, Calment met Vincent van Gogh while he visited her uncle's shop to buy canvas. 

During her later years in the 1990s, she could not hear very well. In 1995 at the age of 120 years, she became the subject of her own documentary, "120 Years with Jeanne Calment". She died in Arles.

A study by Russian researcher Nikolay Zak has disputed Jeanne Calment's claimed age with a hypothesis that Jeanne's daughter Yvonne, born 1898 and claimed to have died of pneumonia in 1934, usurped Jeanne's identity upon Jeanne's death in 1934. In that scenario, Jeanne Calment would have died already in 1934 and Yvonne Calment in 1997, claiming to be her mother and aged 122 but in fact she was aged 99. However, to prove if the hypothesis is true, a DNA/blood test is required.

The oldest undisputed person in history is Japanese woman Kane Tanaka, who lived to age 119 years, 107 days.


François Truffaut

François Roland Truffaut (6 February 1932 – 21 October 1984) was a French movie director, producer, writer, actor and critic. He was very popular in the 1960s for such noted movies as "The 400 Blows", "Jules and Jim", "Stolen Kisses", "The Wild Child" and others.

Truffaut was born in Paris and died of brain cancer in Neuilly-sur-Seine, Hauts-de-Seine.

Leif Erikson

Leif Eriksson or Ericsson, Erickson, and Ericksson (c. 970 – c. 1020) was a Norse explorer. He was the first known European to travel to North America.

Erikson was probably born in Iceland between 970-975 and grew up in Greenland. He had two brothers named Thorstien and Thorvald and a sister named Freydís. His father was Erik the Red, who had created colonies in Greenland. Erikson is said to have visited North America long before anyone else in Europe did. According to Icelandic sagas (stories) he started a Viking settlement in Vinland. Many people think this was L'Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland in Canada. After landing in North America and when he was going back to Greenland, he rescued a man in his crew who had sunk. From that moment on, he was called “Leif the Lucky”. He is generally believed to be the first European to reach the North American continent, nearly four centuries before Christopher Columbus arrived in 1492. 

Thomas More

Sir Thomas More or Saint Thomas More (7 February 1478 – 6 July 1535), was an English writer, lawyer, and statesman. He held many important jobs including Speaker of the House of Commons, Lord Chancellor and advisor to the King Henry VIII. He also invented the word "utopia", which means: "an ideal place to live". This is described in the book he wrote called "Utopia". 

When King Henry left the Roman Catholic Church because the Pope would not give him a divorce from his first wife, he started The Church of England. More was a devout Catholic, so he did not accept the King as head of the Church. Because of this, he was arrested and executed for treason. He was thought of as a martyr and made a saint by the Roman Catholic Church in 1935. His feast day is on 22 June and he is the patron of lawyers and politicians. A play and movie called A Man For All Seasons is based on his life.


Juan Perón

Juan Domingo Perón (October 8, 1895 – July 1, 1974) was an Argentine general and politician. He was born in Buenos Aires. He served as President of Argentina from 1946 to 1955, ruling with his second wife Eva Perón and again from 1973 to 1974 with his third wife Isabel Perón, who was his vice president. In Argentina, he and his second wife Eva (popularly known as Evita) are considered icons by many people, especially members of Perónist Justicialist Party, which he started and is still popular today. He was elected in 1946. In 1955 he was overthrown and forced to leave the country. In 1973, he returned and ran for president again with his third wife Isabel as vice-president and was elected. He died in Buenos Aires less than a year after being elected. His widow, Isabel took his place, which made her the first woman president in the world.

He was very popular among the working class, because he was the first politician in a long time to care about them. He required businesses to pay decent wages and safe conditions. He also did other social reforms, but also was pretty controlling. He controlled what could be said over the radio and sent people opposing him to jail. He also controlled trade unions and businesses, so although they had power, the government had the last word.

Kosher

Kosher is the name that Jews give to the laws about the kind of food that they may eat. Their holy books specify certain kinds of food that are all right to eat, and that other kinds should not be eaten. 

The Kosher laws say that products classified as meat must not be eaten in the same meal with dairy products. Fish, fruit, and vegetables are considered neutral, called "pareve" (pronounced "PAR-veh"), and may be eaten with either meat or dairy meals. Jews who "keep kosher" have separate utensils for meat and dairy foods, and wait a number of hours after eating one type of food before eating the other type.

The meat of some animals may not be eaten at all. Animals whose meat may be eaten must be killed in a special, careful way by a religiously trained slaughterer. Meat that is not fit to eat is called "treif" (pronounced TRAYf).




Cartagena, Colombia

Cartagena (pronounced in Spanish; the usual English pronunciation is or ), also known as Cartagena de Indias ("Cartagena of the West Indies"), is a large city seaport on the northern coast of Colombia. It is the capital of the Bolívar Department. As of 2005, it has a population of roughly 895,400. It was founded in 1533 by Don Pedro de Heredia, and named after the port of Cartagena in Spain's Murcia region. It was a major centre of early Spanish settlement in the Americas, and continues to be an economic hub as well as a popular tourist destination.


Greta Garbo

Greta Garbo (born Greta Lovisa Gustafsson; 18 September 1905 – 15 April 1990) was a Swedish-American actress.

Greta Gustafson was born in Stockholm, she studied at the Royal School of Dramatic Art in her native city, while working as a fashion model. She became a star in Sweden when Mauritz Stiller cast her in the 1924 silent movie "The Atonement of Gösta Berling". 

Soon after, she came to the attention of Louis B. Mayer and went to Hollywood in 1925. Soon, she established herself as one of the world's most popular movie stars. 

Some of her most notable movies include; "Mata Hari" (1931), "Queen Christina" (1933), "Camille" (1936), "Conquest" (1937) and "Ninotchka" (1939).

She retired from movies in 1941 and became an American citizen on 9 February 1951. In 1984 she had breast cancer. She lived as a semi-recluse in New York City until her death (April 15; 1990) there from renal failure and pneumonia.


Anita Ekberg

Kerstin Anita Marianne Ekberg (29 September 1931 11 January 2015) was a Swedish actress. She was born in Malmö, Skåne. She was best known for her role in the movie "La Dolce Vita" (1960), which was directed by Federico Fellini. 

Ekberg died from a long-illness in Castelli Romani, Italy, aged 83.

World Championship Wrestling

World Championship Wrestling (WCW) was a professional wrestling company and also the name of a 2-hour wrestling show on TBS created by Ted Turner in 1982. 

One of the earliest shows to be broadcast on Ted Turner's WTBS station was World Championship Wrestling, airing at 6:05 in the afternoon. Wrestling had aired on the channel since 1972. World Championship Wrestling was taped in Atlanta, Georgia, at WTBS' studios at 1050 Techwood Drive until 1989, when the taping location was moved to the Center Stage Theater, in Atlanta. In 1988, Turner started the company World Championship Wrestling, named after the show. The show was then called WCW Saturday Night in 1992. WCW grew bigger with wrestlers such as Ric Flair, Sting, Arn Anderson, Lex Luger, The Steiner Brothers, Vader and Ron Simmons. In 1995, a Monday night show was added called WCW Monday Nitro to compete with the World Wrestling Federation and it's flagship show Raw in what became known as the "Monday Night Wars" winning until 1998.

Ted Turner lost control of his networks TBS and TNT in October 1996. He still was in charge of day-to-day operations of the Turner channels and WCW, but Time Warner had majority ownership over it, so basically any major decisions had to be approved by them. WCW began to decline in 1998 and got significantly worse after an event called the Fingerpoke of Doom on the first Nitro of 1999. In January 2001, AOL merged with Time Warner and Ted Turner was forced out of TNT, TBS and WCW. The new owners decided not to show wrestling anymore. Turner still supported wrestling, but Time Warner didn't and in the end WCW was bought out by the World Wrestling Federation who shut it down.

The video library and copyrights were bought by WWE on March 23, 2001. WWE Classics On Demand continues to show episodes of the original World Championship Wrestling program.


The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air

The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air is an American television series. It is a sitcom that aired on NBC from September 10, 1990, to May 20, 1996 for six seasons. It is set in Bel Air, Los Angeles, and stars Will Smith as the "Fresh Prince". At the beginning he lives with his mother in poverty in Philadelphia. In the first episode he moves to Bel Air to live with his rich aunt, uncle and cousins. It was nominated for two Golden Globe Awards. The show was also successful outside of the United States, and was on the UK channel BBC2 from 1991 to 2004.

The Nation of Domination

The Nation of Domination (NoD) was a professional wrestling stable (a group of wrestlers who work together) in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). The group was based on the Nation of Islam. It was created in the WWF by Faarooq. There were usually no more than four or five members of the NoD at any one time but as members left or became injured, other wrestlers would replace them. Members of the NoD included Rocky Maivia (The Rock), Crush, Savio Vega, D'Lo Brown, Ahmed Johnson, Kama Mustafa, Mark Henry and Owen Hart. The NoD separated in October 1998.

The NoD fought mainly against D-Generation X, led by Triple H.



Potomac River

The Potomac River is a river in the eastern United States. It is 665 kilometers long. It forms part of the borders between Maryland, West Virginia, Washington, D.C., and Virginia. The Potomac flows to the Chesapeake Bay. It has two sources. The North Branch starts at Fairfax Stone in West Virginia, and the South Branch starts in Highland County, Virginia. The North Branch and the South Branch meet in Hampshire County, West Virginia, and make the Potomac River.

Greenbrier County, West Virginia

Greenbrier County is a county in the state of West Virginia, in the United States. About 33,000 people were living in Greenbrier County as of 2020. Greenbrier County has an area of 1,025 square miles.

Emperor Go-Sanjō

This 11th century sovereign was named after Emperor Sanjō and "go-" (後), translates literally as "later." He is sometimes called the "Later Emperor Sanjō". The Japanese word ""go"" has also been translated to mean the "second one;" and in some older sources, this emperor may be identified as "Sanjō, the second," or as "Sanjo II."

His personal name ("imina") was .

He was the second son of Emperor Go-Suzaku, and his mother was Empress Sadako, the third daughter of Emperor Sanjō. This made him the first Emperor in 170 years whose mother was not of the Fujiwara family.






The Japanese era names ("nengō") of his reign were


Emperor Jimmu

There are no certain dates for this emperor's life or reign. The names and sequence of the early emperors were not confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

Historians debate whether or not Emperor Jimmu actually existed because there is limited evidence of him. Some stories about him may reflect actual events that happened.

Jimmu is almost certainly a legend. His name and genealogy are recorded in the "Kojiki" and "Nihonshoki". Jimmu is regarded as a direct descendant of the Shinto sun goddess, Amaterasu.

During reign of Emperor Jimmu, the capital of Japan was at Kashiwabara, Yamato at the foot of Mt. Unebi.

The absence of information about Jimmu does not mean that he did or did not exist. There is very little data about the rulers of Japan before the reign of Emperor Bidatsu

The traditional story is that Jimmu came from Kyushu to Yamato Province on the island of Honshu. The story explains that he followed a three legged crow. He established his reign at Kashihara near Osaka.

This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was ascribed to Jimmu.

The actual site of his grave is not known. According to the Imperial Household Agency, the emperor is venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine ("misasagi") in Kashihara at Nara. The mausoleum is located a short distance from Kashihara Shrine.

In 1872, the Meiji government declared that February 11, 660 BC was the exact date on which the reign of Jimmu began. This was identified as the start of the Japanese nation. This mythical date was commemorated as the holiday "Kigensetsu" ("Era Day"). This national holiday was celebrated from 1872 to 1948.
The "Kigensetsu" events in 1940 were special. They celebrated what was believed to be 2,600 years since the start of Emperor Jimmu's reign.

There has been a similar Japanese national holiday since February 11, 1966. It is called National Foundation Day ("Kenkoku Kinen no hi").


Posthumous name

A posthumous name is an honorary name given to someone after their death. This type of name was common with naming royalty in the countries of Japan and China. They were also sometimes used in Vietnam and Korea.

This idea was created during the Zhou Dynasty in China. The first person to be named in this way was Ji Chang, named by his son. His son, Ji Fa of Zhou, called his father the "Civil King". This meant that he found his father to be good and sympathetic to the people he ruled.

These sort of names were not used during the Qin Dynasty. During that time, these names were not thought to show respect. Posthumous names were used again during the Han Dynasty.

Chinese posthumous names, for rulers, end in one or both symbols for "emperor", "Huángdì". This can be shortened to "Dì".

These names were sometimes very long. They can be good names or bad. Good names are called respectful names (or "zūn hào" in Chinese). Some of these names are:

The posthumous names of Japanese emperors are called "teigō". Some names are given a long time after their death. Others are given right after the emperor had died.

Some of these names tell about the place they were born or lived in, or traits they had that their people admired.

Some also put together two previous emperors' or empresses' names, like Empress Meishō. The empresses before her were called Gemmei and Genshō. So her name became Meishō.



You Can't Do That on Television

You Can't Do That on Television (YCDTOTV) is a Canadian children's television program that aired on Nickelodeon in the USA. It was created by Roger Price and produced from 1979 until 1990. It mostly featured child actors in a sketch comedy format, acting out short scenes based on a theme that served as the topic for the episode. Connecting scenes based on the theme would often serve to create a story arc that lasted the length of the episode. It became known for its iconic green slime that was originally used in this show. The series is known also because future pop recording artist Alanis Morissette was in it as a cast member at some time.

In 2002, and again in 2004, "YCDTOTV" cast members reunited alongside fans of the show at SlimeCon, a fan-produced convention in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. "YCDTOTV" was a children's comedy show. Some people see it as a nostalgic cult classic. During the 2004 event, a "Top Secret" reunion special had its premiere.

Medellín

Medellín (pronounced or , Spanish: or ) is the capital city in the Metropolitan Area of Medellín of the Antioquia Department, Colombia. It was founded in 1616 by Francisco Herrera Campuzano. As of 2014, the municipality of Medellín had a population of about 2.45 million inhabitants. This makes it the second most populated city in Colombia after Bogotá, which is the capital city of Colombia. Medellín also is the core of the Valle de Aburrá ("Aburrá Valley") metropolitan area. This is the second largest metropolitan area in Colombia, with more than 3.8 million inhabitants, and a leading and productive industrial and urban center.

The city's major problem is unemployment. Many other Colombian cities also have this problem. People from Antioquia and especially from Medellín are called Paisas although the Paisas are people from the departments of Antioquia, Risaralda, Caldas and Quindío.

Nouakchott

Nouakchott () is the capital city of the African county of Mauritania. It is the largest city in that country and one of the largest cities on the Sahara Desert. The city is the administrative and economic centre of Mauritania. The Arabic name is said to mean "The place of winds" in the language of the Berber people.

The city is often a place where the urban Mauritanians and the nomadic people of the area can interact.

The population of Nouakchott is about 881,000 people. It is hard to know exactly how many people live in the city because many of them are nomadic. They find a good place to live, set up their tent for a short time and then move to somewhere else.

Although Islam is the state religion in Mauritania, Nouakchott includes the Cathedral of St. Joseph, a Catholic cathedral.

Nouakchott has a deep-sea port. It was opened in 1986. The port is mainly used for imports. The city also features an international airport. The city is home to the Université de Nouakchott. It is the only university in Mauritania. Things to see in Nouakchott include Nouakchott Museum, several markets including Nouakchott Silver Market, and the beaches.

Nouakchott has very little history. It was a tiny fishing town until 1958. It is possible that the Berber Muslim Almoravids came from the area. The city was selected as the capital city for its mild climate and its location near the center of the country.

Mauritania was part of the larger French colony of French West Africa. During that time, Saint-Louis, in Senegal was the capital. In 1957, this small port town was chosen to be the capital of the new country. A building program was begun to grow its population to 15,000. In 1962, Nouakchott became the capital of an independent country.

The city has much growth. Because of the north African drought since the beginning of the 1970s many people have moved to the city.

Nouakchott is located on the Atlantic coast of the Sahara Desert. The city is very spread out. It has only a few tall buildings.

Nouakchott is built around a large tree-lined street, Avenue Abd an-Nasir. This street runs northeast through the city center from the airport. Other major streets are named (in French) for notable Mauritanian people, or international people of the 1960s: Avenue de Gaulle, Avenue Kennedy, and Avenue Lumumba, for example.

Temperatures range between 33°C (92°F) and 13 °C (56 °F). The average rainfall is 178mm (7in) a year.


Saint Nicholas

Saint Nicholas (Greek: Άγιος Νικόλαος, ayios nicholaos) (270–6 December 343), or Nikolaos of Myra, was the Bishop of Myra.

He was born in the Greek colony of Patara, in Asia Minor. Myra is near Antalya, in modern-day Turkey.

In the 11th century, his remains were taken to Bari, Italy, to save them from Turkish (Muslim) invaders.

He is the patron saint of very many groups, including thieves and murderers. So far as is known, what he did in that respect was to protect the "falsely accused".

He is venerated in both Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Churches.

His parents were relatively well-off. Nicholas is said to have distributed his fortune among the poor. This is relatively well documented. Less documented deeds of his include saving children from drowning. Nicholas saved young girls from being made prostitutes (because their fathers did not have the money for a dowry). He helped seamen in a storm and saved a child that was abducted.

In the Eastern Orthodox Church, Saint Nicholas of Myra is a very prominent figure. Very often, the third large icon on the Iconostasis in Orthodox churches is devoted to him. The other two are usually devoted to Jesus, and to Mary with the child.

The modern composer Benjamin Britten composed a cantata for orchestra and choir about the life of St. Nicholas. It is very popular and often performed.

He is the Saint behind the legendary character of Santa Claus. He is the patron Saint of Children, of Seafarers and merchants. The Hanseatic League chose him as their patron saint. Over 400 churches and several thousands all over the world are named after Nicholas of Myra. He is also the patron saint of both Amsterdam, capital of Netherlands and Moscow, capital of Russia.


HBO

The Home Box Office (HBO) is an American cable television network. HBO show movies made for theaters as well as television. The also show many original television programs, including "The Sopranos", "Six Feet Under", "Crashbox" and "Big Love". Other popular series include "George and Martha", "Oz", "True Blood", "Carnivàle", "Curb Your Enthusiasm", "Game of Thrones", "Boardwalk Empire", "The Wire", "Entourage" and "Deadwood". HBO is owned by Warner Bros. Discovery.



The Electric Company

The Electric Company was an educational American children's television series. It was produced by the Children's Television Workshop (1971-1977)/Sesame Workshop (2006 and 2009-2011) for PBS in the United States. PBS broadcast 930 episodes over nine seasons from 1971 to 1977, 2006, and 2009 to 2011. CTW (1971-1977)/Sesame Workshop (2006/2009-2011) produced the show at Reeves Teletape Studios (1971-1977)/Kaufman Astoria Studios (2006/2009-2011) Second Stage in Manhattan.

"The Electric Company" used sketch comedy and other devices to create an entertaining program to help children of elementary-school age get better at reading skills. It was meant for children who had "graduated" from CTW's main program, "Sesame Street."

Season 1 was released on October 25, 1971 - April 21, 1972; season 2 was released on October 23, 1972 - April 20, 1973; season 3 was released on October 22, 1973 - April 19, 1974, season 4 was released on October 21, 1974 - April 18, 1975, season 5 was released on October 20, 1975 - April 16, 1976, season 6 was released on October 18, 1976 - April 15, 1977, season 7 is released in 2006 and January 19 - October 1, 2009, season 8 is released in January 25 - May 7, 2010, and season 9 is released in February 7 - March 28, 2011. June Angela as Julie (1971-1977 and 2009) was a long-running cast member of the 1971-1977 rock band named The Short Circus. In 2006, the 1977 departed 1975-1977 cast were or was replaced by the 2009-2011 cast playing the Ruiz family and their friends in their gang. In the comic book, season 10 is released in 2012.



Model (person)

A model is a person who has the job of using their body to pose for art, or to show fashion items, such as clothes or jewellery. Models often appear in advertising on television and in print media, for example newspapers and magazines, or on the web.

The first person described to work as a fashion model was Parisian shopgirl, Marie Vernet Worth. She was a 'house' model in 1852, for her fashion designer husband at the "haute couture" House of Worth.

There are many different types of models. Some models only use certain parts of their bodies. For example, a "hand model" is a person who only uses their hands. A hand model would be used to display certain items, for example rings and watches. These models are mostly used for advertisements.

Fashion models are used to sell clothing or cosmetics. People who make clothing will often use fashion models to wear the clothing they make at fashion shows. The models will walk up and down a raised section of floor called the catwalk or "runway" to show the clothing to other people. Some exclusive 'fashion houses' also use models to show off their dresses to clients. This idea was invented by Charles Worth.

Photographers use models for advertising, editorial and personal portfolio work. Work can involve news, fine art, fashion, fitness and glamour. Some photographers may ask models to express different moods or feeling for pictures.

Models can be all shapes and sizes, both men and women. Models do not have to be size zero, though most are young, good-looking females. There are specialist models for feet, hands and face, all of which may be photographed for various reasons. Some models are "plus-size" models and are of a larger build.

A supermodel is a highly paid model who usually has a worldwide reputation. The term "supermodel" began being used in the 1980s. Supermodels usually work for top fashion designers and famous clothing brands. They have multimillion-dollar contracts. They also have endorsements and campaigns. They have branded themselves as household names and are recognized worldwide.

Fine art models are hired by photographers, painters, sculptors and other artists to pose for their art.

Models are frequently used during art classes, but are also employed by professional artists. The most common types of art created using models are figure drawing and painting, sculpture and photography. Although commercial motives dominate over aesthetics in advertising, its 'artwork' commonly employs models.

Throughout the history of Western art, drawing the human figure from life was considered the best way to develop the skill of drawing. In the art school classroom setting, there are no real limitations on who the model can be. In some cases, the model may pose with various props, one or more other models, animals etc., against real or artificial background, in natural or artificial light and so on.

Models for life drawing classes are often nude, apart from visually non-obstructive personal items such as small jewellery and sometimes eyeglasses. This may be referred to as being 'undraped' or 'disrobed'.

Models typically work in one of two ways:

Jacques Rougeau

Jacques Rougeau Jr. (born June 13, 1960 in Saint-Sulpice, Quebec) is a French-Canadian retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his time working with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in the 1980s and 1990s. He first teamed with his brother Raymond Rougeau as The Fabulous Rougeaus. He would later have a singles career and wrestled under the ring name The Mountie. He later formed The Quebecers with Pierre. Rougeau also wrestled for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) from 1996 until 1998 where he teamed with Carl Ouellet as The Amazing French Canadians.

During his career, Rougeau was a one-time WWF Intercontinental Champion and a three-time WWF Tag Team Championship with Quebecer Pierre.



Ezzard Charles

Ezzard Mack Charles (July 7, 1921 – May 28, 1975) was an African-American professional boxer. He was the heavyweight boxing champion from September 27, 1950, when he outpointed Joe Louis in 15 rounds in New York City, to July 18, 1951, when he was knocked out by Jersey Joe Walcott in 7 rounds in Pittsburgh. 

As an amateur, Charles was undefeated and in 1939 won the national AAU Middleweight Championship. Charles turned professional in 1940, but his career was interrupted while he served in the United States military during World War II. Charles won the World Heavyweight Championship in 1950 and retired from boxing in 1959 with a record of 96 wins, 25 losses, and 1 draw. Ring Magazine named Charles Fighter of the Year in 1949 and 1950. In 1976, Cincinnati honored Charles by renaming a street Ezzard Charles Drive and in 1990 he was posthumously inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame. In 2009, Boxing Magazine designated Charles the greatest light heavyweight boxer of all time.

Religion of ancient Egypt

The religion of ancient Egypt lasted throughout their civilization. After about three thousand years, the Egyptian people turned to Coptic Christianity and Islam. These religions were brought by influences from outside. Christianity spread across Egypt in the third and fourth centuries AD. After the Muslim conquest of Egypt in the 7th century, most Egyptians were converted to Islam by the 10th century.

At the beginning, there were five different religious groups of people in Egypt. Each groups had different beliefs, and were based in different places.
During the history of Egypt, the beliefs changed with the current leader. When someone rose in power, their belief system rose as well. The new beliefs would combined with the beliefs that were already there. This happened even after the end of the ancient Egyptian civilization as it is known today. An example of this might be the "New Kingdom". During its time, the gods Ra and Amun, became Amun-Ra. Joining to create one god is usually referred to as syncretism.

The Egyptians believed that in the beginning, the universe was filled with the dark waters of chaos. The first god, Re-Atum, came from the water. Re-Atum spat and this created the gods Shu (god of air) and Tefnut (goddess of moisture). The world was created when Shu and Tefnut gave birth to two children: Nut (goddess of the sky) and Geb (god of the Earth). Humans were created when Shu and Tefnut went walking in the darkness and got lost. Re-Atum sent his eye to find them. After finding them, his tears of joy turned into people.

Nut and Geb had sex. When Shu heard about this, he did not want them to be together. He became the air between the sky and ground. He also said that the pregnant Nut could not give birth. Nut begged Thoth to help. Thoth gambled with the moon-god Khonsu. He won five more days to be added to the 360-day year. Nut had one child on each of these days: Osiris, Isis, Set, Nephthys, and Horus-the-Elder.

Osiris was the king of Egypt. His brother, Seth, murdered him and became the king. After killing him, Seth tore the body of Osiris into pieces. Isis rescued the pieces. She wanted to bury the pieces under the temple. After Seth became king, he was fought by Horus, Osiris's son. Seth lost and was sent to the desert. Seth became the god of horrible storms. Osiris was mummified by Anubis and became God of the dead. Horus became the new king. In ancient Egypt, it was believed that the pharaohs were Horus's descendants.

The ancient Greeks believed that Egyptian gods and goddesses were the descendants of their gods and goddesses. In ancient Greek Mythology, when the titan Typhon was set free, all of the Greek gods (except for Hermes and Zeus) fled to Egypt. In Greece, many of the gods made themselves turn into animals to hide themselves from Typhon. 
Egypt had a developed view of the afterlife with rituals for preparing the body and soul for a peaceful life after death. Beliefs about the soul and afterlife focused mainly on preserving the body. This was because they believed that the "ka" (a part of a person's soul that was depicted as a bird with a persons head) was still living in the body after death and it was important for the ka to be reunited with the ba, the spirit or soul to form the akh. This meant that embalming and mummification were done, in order to preserve the person's identity in the afterlife. Originally the dead were buried in reed coffins in the hot sand, which caused the remains to dry quickly, and then were buried. Later, they started constructing wooden tombs, and the long process of mummification was developed by the Egyptians around the 4th Dynasty. All soft tissues were removed, and the cavities washed and packed with natron, then the outer body was buried in natron as well. The heart was the only organ left within the body as it was believed the heart had to be weighed in the underworld to see if the person was worthy of a peaceful afterlife. The other organs were placed in 'canopic jars' which had seals depicting the heads of the Gods that guarded the intestines: Imsety,an Egyptian man who guards the liver, Hapi, a baboon who guards the lungs, Duamutef, a jackal who guards the stomach and Qebehsenuef, a falcon who guards the intestines.

After coming out of the natron, the bodies were coated inside and out with resin to preserve them, then wrapped with linen bandages, embedded with religious amulets and talismans. In the case of royalty, this was usually then placed inside a series of nested coffins. The outer layer of the coffins was a stone sarcophagus. Other creatures were also mummified, sometimes thought to be pets of Egyptian families, but more likely they represented the gods. They left the heart in place because they thought it was the home of the soul.

The Book of the Dead was a series of almost two hundred spells represented as texts, songs and pictures written on papyrus. They were individually customized for the dead. They were buried along with the dead to make their passage into the underworld easier. After working their way through lakes of fire, spitting cobras, demon jackals and giant bugs their soul is led into a hall of judgment in Duat by Anubis (god of mummification) and the deceased's heart, which was the record of the morality of the owner, is weighed against a single feather representing Ma'at (the concept of truth, and order). A heart that weighed less than the feather was considered a pure heart. This resulted in a good outcome. A heart heavy with guilt and sin from one's life weighed more than the feather, and so the heart would be eaten by Ammit ("Eater of Hearts")–part crocodile, part lion, and part hippopotamus. If the outcome was good, the dead are taken to Osiris, god of the afterlife, in Aaru, but the if the out come was bad, the demon Ammit destroyed their heart which killed the soul. The person would then be placed in a special place with food just out of reach of their hands. If they ever got the food, demons would put them into a hole to make it harder for them.
The Greeks wrote a myth about a King who was forced to do the same thing but he was imprisoned in a lake. Whenever he bent his head to have some water, the lake would drain away only to bring the water back when he stopped trying. There was also food above his head on a tree and whenever he reached out for it the branch would move away.

A short time of monotheism (Atenism) happened when Akhenaten (Amenhotep IV) was pharaoh. He focused the religion on the Egyptian sun god Aten. The Aten is usually shown as a sun disk with rays coming out of all sides. Akhenaten built a new capital at Amarna with temples for The Aten. Akhenaten's religion only lasted until his death. The old religion was quickly restored by Tutankhamun, Akhenaten's son by his wife Kiya.

While most historians say this period is monotheistic, some researchers do not. They say that people worshipped the royal family as gods who got their divine power from the Aten. In one picture, Akhanaten is shown with his wife Nefertiti with three of their 6 daughters sitting under the beams of the Aten. This point of view is mostly ignored by the historians. Some researchers say that Akhenaten or some of his viziers were Moses or Joseph (Bible) from the Bible.

After the fall of the Amarna dynasty, the original Egyptin pantheon was the main religion, until the development Coptic Christianity and later Islam, even though the Egyptians continued to have relations with the other monotheistic cultures (the Hebrews). Egyptian mythology put up surprisingly little resistance to the spread of Christianity. This is sometimes explained by saying that Jesus was originally a syncretism based mainly on Horus, with Isis and her worship becoming Mary.




Kyle Broflovski

Kyle Broflovski (sometimes called Brovlofski or Broflofski) is a fictional character in the animated television series "South Park". He is voiced by and influenced by Matt Stone, one of the people who made the show. Kyle is one of the four main characters. The other three main characters are Stan Marsh, Kenny McCormick, and Eric Cartman. He is friends with Stan and Kenny. They are all in fourth grade. They all hang out with Eric Cartman. They do not like him because he can be mean and offensive. Kyle usually acts as the protagonist to Cartman's antagonist. Because Kyle is one of the few Jewish children on the show, he sometimes feels like an outcast between the main group of characters.

Keeping with the animation style of South Park, Kyle is created from simple geometrical shapes. He is not given the same free range of motion like characters that are drawn by hand. In one of the earliest episodes, he was created out of construction paper cutouts and animated with the use of stop motion. Kyle is now animated with computer software. He is shown to give the sense that the show still uses the original animation technique.

Kyle wears a bright green cap with ear flaps (shapka or bomber-hat), a bright orange jacket, dark green pants, and lime-green mittens or gloves. When he is not seen wearing his cap (which does not happen very often), he is shown to have a bright red-to-auburn Jewfro. He does not like this hairstyle.

Kyle lives with his family in the fictional town of South Park, Colorado. He has an adopted brother named Ike. Ike is from Canada. Both Kyle and Ike are Jewish. Kyle is one of the smartest students in the fourth grade class at his elementary school. Cartman usually makes fun of Kyle because he is Jewish.

Kyle's father, Gerald is a caring parent to Kyle who usually tries to teach him important morals and ethics. His mother, Sheila is a very overprotective and has a knack for fequently protesting in things that opposes or comes across her ideas or beliefs. Even though her personality sometimes bothers Kyle, he is known to have still loved her and would come to here defense when Cartman would make fun of Kyle's mom. Sheila is based on the stereotype about Jewish mothers. Kyle usually has a good relationship with his parents, although he sometimes would rebel against them.

Kyle also has one brother, Ike. Ike is his younger brother who was adopted from Canada. In the earlier episodes of the series, Kyle sometimes played a game he called "kick the baby", where he would punt Ike into the air. Kyle is shown to be caring for Ike and tries to protect him several times. In addition to his regular family, Kyle has a cousin who shares the same name with him. However, Kyle did not seem to like his cousin and tried to send him away several times.


Eric Cartman

Eric Theodore Cartman is a fictional character in the animated television series "South Park". He is voiced by co-creator Trey Parker.

Eric is an overweight child, who wears a red winter jacket, yellow gloves, brown pants, and sports a light blue/cyan woolly hat with yellow rims and a yellow poof ball on top of it.

Cartman is one of four main characters in the series. He is often the main reason for their adventures because of his over-enthusiasm and selfishness. 

Cartman often reacts violently to things that he hates. He hates any race or group of which he is not a member, particularly the Jews. He also has sociopathic tendencies. This comes from his rivalry with Kyle Broflovski. 

In an older pilot episode for South Park, Cartman is killed, causing Stan and Kyle to utter the iconic phrase: "Oh My God, They Killed Kenny; You Bastards!", although, since it was "Cartman" who was killed, this makes us believe that originally, Cartman was Kenny (vice versa). 

Eric idolizes Adolf Hitler, Henry Ford, and Mel Gibson. He is also a fan of T.S. Elliot. He often tricks others, at which he is good at, to meet his own ends, no matter the consequences to other people, even if it can result in deaths. Cartman has gone to prison.

In the earlier seasons, Cartman was often seen taking advantage of or tricking Butters Stotch into doing something, at the expense of Cartman's enjoyment. These include, forcing Butters to stay in a bunker so Eric can take his place in going to an event and plastering a fake pair of testicles on his chin so he can go on television.

Cartman lives with his mother. He previously had a pet pig and cat, but they both stopped appearing in episodes. In the original pilot episode, Cartman and his mother are seen eating dinner with a man and little girl, presumably his father and younger sister. Whilst episodes have been dedicated about the identity of Eric's father, nothing has ever been said of the mysterious sister. It is eventually revealed that his father is that of Mr. Tenorman, father of Scott Tenorman, Eric's one-time rival. What makes this worse is that, in one episode, he grinds Scotts' parents into chilli after they stole a pony and feeds it to Scott. With this information, that means that in reality, Eric grinded up his own Father.

In an earlier season, Cartman, Linda, Kyle, Kenny, and Stan travel to the state of Nebraska to meet Eric's relative. Many of the younger male relatives have a striking resemblance to him, such as his youngest cousin named Elvin, who was always carrying a melting chocolate ice pop and had chocolate smeered on his mouth. We never and hear of these Nebraskan relatives after the episode.

Cartman was briefly in a relationship with school student, Heidi Turner.

Psyche

Psyche can refer to two different concepts:

...And Justice for All (album)

...And Justice For All is Metallica's fourth album and was released on September 7, 1988. It was Metallica's first album since the death of Cliff Burton, who was replaced by Jason Newsted as their bass player. It shall be said though, that they recorded and released The $5.98 E.P.: Garage Days Re-Revisited, which only include five songs covered by Metallica, but it is often not counted as a Metallica album, as it only contain five cover songs.

All songs written by James Hetfield, Lars Ulrich, and Kirk Hammett except where noted.


Armenian Apostolic Church

The Armenian Apostolic Church (Armenian: Հայ Առաքելական Եկեղեցի), also called the Armenian Orthodox Church or the Gregorian Church, is the world's oldest national church and one of the most ancient Christian communities.

The Kingdom of Armenia was the first state to adopt Christianity as its official religion under the rule of King Tiridates in the early 4th century. The church claims to have originated in the missions of Apostles Bartholomew and Thaddeus in the 1st century, by tradition. The Church teaches that it was first preached by two Apostles of Jesus, St. Thaddeus and St. Bartholomew. The Armenian Apostolic Church claims to been in existence since the days of the apostles and therefore would be one of the oldest denominations of Christianity. Armenia was the first country to adopt Christianity as its official religion, when St. Gregory the Illuminator converted Tiridates III (the King of Armenia) and members of his court, traditionally dated to 301 (after Mikayel Chamchian 1784). The Church teaches that St. Gregory was imprisoned by Tiridates in an underground pit, called Khor Virab, for 13 years, after which he healed the King of an incurable disease, whereupon Tiridates accepted Christianity.



National church

The term national church is usually a reference to a church organization in Christianity that claims pastoral jurisdiction over a nation. The term should not be confused with established church (state church): a national church differs from a state church such that a national church does not necessarily need to be officially endorsed by the state, and even may be persecuted by the government (as Orthodox churches were persecuted under communist regimes). A state religion is similar to a national or state church, except the religion need not be Christian.

The term national church (or "independent church") is used a lot within, but is not shortened to, the Anglican Communion and Orthodox Christianity. For example, the Episcopal Church in the United States of America considers itself to be the national church of the United States.

In Catholicism, the term national church might mean to a parish catering to immigrants from another nation.






















List of football clubs in Armenia

This is a list of Armenian football (soccer) clubs.


FC Zvartnots

FC Zvartnots is an Armenian football club from Yerevan. 

The club made their first notable result in the 1998 Armenian First League, where they became the league's champions and win promotion to the Armenian Premier League.

For a few years Zvartnots would become one of the main contenders in the Premier League. In their first Premier League season they reached the fourth spot, while in 2001 they became second after FC Pyunik. In the 2003 season they would still be among the Premier League clubs, however they withdrew before the season and did not return in professional football since.


Armenian Premier League

The Armenian Premier League is the top football competition in Armenia. 

It was founded by the Football Federation of Armenia in 1992. From 1936 to 1991, the games were held as a regional tournament within the USSR. For the first three years the season ran from spring to fall, but since the 1995-1996 season has run from summer to spring. The league currently consists of six teams, and the worst teams relegates to the Armenian First League. Over the years, the league has shrunk from a league consisting of only eight teams to six teams. and



Football Federation of Armenia

The Football Federation of Armenia (FFA) is the governing body of football in Armenia. It organizes the Armenian Premier League and the Armenian national football team. It is based in Yerevan.


Orhan Pamuk

Ferit Orhan Pamuk (born June 7, 1952) is a famous Nobel Prize-winning Turkish author. Pamuk is a post-modernist writer. He has won many writing awards around the world. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature on October 12 2006, which made him the first Turkish person to win the Nobel Prize.

In 2005, he faced criminal charges because of comments he made in an interview. In the interview, Pamuk said about Armenian Genocide, "Thirty thousand Kurds, and a million Armenians were killed in these lands and nobody dares to talk about it." Pamuk faced a hate campaign and he had to flee the country. The charges were dropped in early 2006 under an influence of international movement of Amnesty International and European Parliament.






Corpse (disambiguation)

Corpse could mean:


Lake Van

Lake Van (, ) is the largest lake in Turkey, in the far east of the country.

Akdamar Island is in this lake. Although Lake Van is at altitude with harsh winters, it does not freeze because it is very salty, except occasionally the shallow northern section.

The lake was the center of the Urartian kingdom from about 1000 BC, and the capital of Urartu, Tushpa, was on the shore of Lake Van (on the site of the medieval castle of Van, west of Van city).

Later the land around the lake was ruled by Armenians. Along with Lake Sevan in today's Armenia and Lake Urmia in today's Iran, Van was one of the three great lakes of the Armenian Kingdom, referred to as "the seas of Armenia".


Kurdish language

The Kurdish language (Kurdish: Kurdî) is an Indo-European language spoken by the Kurdish people in an area called Kurdistan, including by Kurdish people in parts of the countries Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey. Kurdish has two main dialects and many subs dialects, the two mains are : Kurmanji and Sorani. It belongs to the same language group as the Iranian languages. Another well-known Iranian language is Persian. It is considered an Indo-European language.

Annual plant

In Botany, an annual plant is a plant that usually germinates, flowers and dies in one year. True annuals will only live longer than a year if they are prevented from setting seed. Some seedless plants can also be considered annuals even though they do not flower.

In gardening, annual often refers to a plant grown outdoors in the spring and summer and surviving just for one growing season. 
Many food plants are, or are grown as, annuals, including most domesticated grains. Some perennials and biennials are grown in gardens as annuals for convenience, particularly if they are not considered cold hardy for the local climate. Carrot, celery and parsley are true biennials that are usually grown as annual crops for their edible roots, petioles and leaves, respectively. Tomato, sweet potato and bell pepper are tender perennials usually grown as annuals.

Ornamental annuals are often called bedding plants. Annuals are often used in gardens to provide splashes of color, as they tend to have a longer season of bloom than hardy herbaceous perennials.

Examples of true annuals include corn, lettuce, pea, cauliflower, watermelon, bean, zinnia and marigold.

Summer annuals sprout, flower and die within the same spring/summer/fall. The lawn weed, crabgrass, is a summer annual.



Pea

A pea, although treated as a vegetable in cooking, is botanically a fruit; the term is most commonly used to describe the small spherical seeds or the pods of the legume Pisum sativum. This was the original model organism used by Gregor Mendel in his early work on genetics.

The name is also used to describe other edible seeds from the Fabaceae like the pigeon pea ("Cajanus cajan"), the chickpea, the cowpea ("Vigna unguiculata") and the seeds from several species of "Lathyrus".

"P. sativum" is an annual plant. It is a cool season crop, planted in winter. The average pea weighs between 0.1 and 0.36 grams. The species is as a fresh vegetable, but is also grown to produce dry peas like the split pea. These varieties are typically called field peas.

"P. sativum" has been cultivated for thousands of years, the sites of cultivation have been described in southern Syria and southeastern Turkey, and some argue that the cultivation of peas with wheat and barley seems to be associated with the spread of Neolithic agriculture into Europe.

It is a cool-season vegetable crop. The seeds may be planted as soon as the soil temperature reaches 10 °C, with the plants growing best at temperatures of 13 °C to 18 °C. They do not thrive in the summer heat of warmer temperate and lowland tropical climates, but do grow well in cooler high altitude tropical areas. Peas grow best in slightly acid, well-drained soils.

The seeds are dispersed when the pod reaches maturity and bursts open. It scatters the peas over as wide a distance as it is possible for the plant.

Several varieties of "P. sativum" have been bred. Widely cultivated examples include:

Fresh peas are often eaten boiled and flavored with butter and/or spearmint as a side dish vegetable. Salt is also commonly added to peas when served. Fresh peas are also used in pot pies, salads and casseroles. Pod peas (particularly sweet cultivars called "mangetout" and "sugar peas", or the flatter "snow peas," called "hé lán dòu", 荷兰豆 in Chinese) are used in stir fried dishes, particularly those in American Chinese cuisine. Pea pods do not keep well once picked, and if not used quickly are best preserved by drying, canning or freezing within a few hours of harvest.
Dried peas are often made into a soup or simply eaten on their own. In Japan and other Southeast Asian countries including Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia, the peas are roasted and salted, and eaten as snacks. In the UK, marrowfat peas are used to make pease pudding (or "pease porridge"), a traditional dish. In North America a similarly traditional dish is split pea soup.

In Chinese cuisine, pea sprouts (豆苗 "dòu miáo") are commonly used in stir-fries and its price is relatively high due to its agreeable taste.

Some forms of etiquette require that peas be only eaten with a fork and not pushed onto the fork with a knife .



Biennial plant

A biennial plant is a flowering plant that takes two years to complete its lifecycle. In the first year the plant grows leaves, stems, and roots (vegetative structures); then it enters a period of dormancy over the colder months. Usually, the stem remains very short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. Many biennials require a cold treatment, before they will flower. The next spring/summer the stem of the biennial plant becomes much longer. The plant then flowers, produces fruits and seeds before it finally dies. There are far fewer biennials than either perennials or annuals.

Under extreme climatic conditions, a biennial plant may complete its lifecycle in a very short period of time (e.g. 3 or 4 months instead of 2 years). This is quite common in vegetable or flower seedlings that were exposed to cold conditions, before they were planted in the ground. This behaviour leads to many normally biennial plants being treated as annuals in some areas.
Flowering can be induced in some biennials by application of the plant hormone "gibberellin", but this is rarely done commercially.

From a gardener's perspective, a plant's status as annual, biennial, or perennial often varies based on location or purpose. Biennials grown for flowers, fruits, or seeds need to be grown for two years. Biennials that are grown for edible leaves or roots are grown as annuals, e.g. beets, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, carrots, celery, parsley, and Swiss chard. If a normally biennial plant is grown in extremely harsh conditions, it is likely to be treated as an annual because it will not survive the winter cold. Conversely, an annual grown under extremely favourable conditions may have highly successful seed propagation, giving it the appearance of being biennial or perennial. Some short-lived perennials may appear to be biennial rather than perennial. True biennials flower only once, while many perennials will flower every year once mature.

Examples of biennial plants are parsley, "Lunaria", silverbeet, sweet William, colic weed, and carrot. The pansy is a biennial often grown as an annual. Plant breeders have produced annual cultivars of several biennials that will flower the first year from seed, e.g. foxglove, stock, and hollyhock.

Biennials may be kept alive longer than two years under environmental conditions that prevent them from flowering. Biennial sugar beet was prevented from flowering by not giving it the cold treatment required for flowering. It was kept alive in a greenhouse for 41 months.


The WB

The Warner Bros. Television Network, commonly called The WB, was a television network in the United States. It was founded by the Warner Bros. film studio and Tribune Company on January 11, 1995. The network was sometimes called "The Frog" because the network's mascot was an animated frog named Michigan J. Frog.

The WB created many well-known television series. Several of these series are "Dawson's Creek", "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "Charmed", "Gilmore Girls", "Angel", "Smallville", "7th Heaven", and "Supernatural".

The WB also had a group of programs aimed at children under the name Kids WB. Kids WB showed mainly animated series, for example, "Jackie Chan Adventures", "Taz-Mania", "Tiny Toon Adventures", "Animaniacs", "Pinky and the Brain" and "".

Port Louis

Port Louis is the capital city of the African country of Mauritius. The city is a port on the Indian Ocean. It is the largest city and main port of the country. Port Louis is located in the Port Louis District. The city has a population of 147,688 people.

Port Louis was founded by the French around 1735. It was used as a place to supply food for their ships travelling around the Cape of Good Hope. The city was named in honour of King Louis XV. The first Governor was Count Bertrand-François Mahé de La Bourdonnais.

Port Louis has many historic and colonial buildings. One of them is a fortification named Fort Adelaide or La Citadelle. It was built by the British in 1835. Most of the city's architecture can be seen from La Citadelle. Port Louis is surrounded by a mountain range, called the Port Louis Moka Range. Other famous spots are the Police Barracks known as Les Casernes and the Port Louis Waterfront.

Other things to see in the city include the Caudan Waterfront, Port Louis Bazaar, the Mauritian Chinatown and the old Port Louis theatre. The capital has also three museums which are: the Mauritius Natural History Museum, the Blue Penny Museum and the Mauritius Stamp Museum.

The main part of the economy of Port Louis is its port. The port handles all of the international trade for the country. Clothing and textiles are the major things manufactured in the city. Chemicals, plastics, and pharmaceuticals are made there, and tourism is also important. 

Port Louis is the second most important financial center in Africa after Johannesburg. It is the city with the highest per capita income in Africa.

The population of the city is now largely made up of the descendants of people who were hired for labor from India in the 19th century. Slaves were brought to the country by the British and French who colonized the island in the 18th century. After the end of slavery in 1835, many Indian and Chinese workers were brought to work the land, and take care of sugar cane, at that time used to make rum. 

More than 75 percent of the population are Indians. The rest come from Africa, while a small number have Chinese and Eurasian ancestry.


Freetown

Freetown is the capital city of the African country of Sierra Leone. With a population of 951,000 people, it is the largest city in that country. The city is a port on the Freetown Peninsula on the Atlantic coast. The port is a very important part of the economy of Freetown. It handles the main exports of the country. Industries include fish, rice, petroleum, and making cigarettes.

The area was first settled in 1787 by 400 freed former slaves and Black American Loyalists sent from London. Many of these men had joined the British Army because the British promised to free them if they fought the American colonists. Before that time it was said to be a slave market. These people created the 'Province of Freetown' on land bought from local Temne leaders. After many of these original settlers died from disease, it was burnt by the local people in 1790.

The Sierra Leone Company tried to settle the area again in 1792. They resettled Freetown with 1,100 former slaves and Loyalists from Nova Scotia. Many of these people were born in the colonial United States. They were led by former slave Thomas Peters. Around 500 free Jamaican Maroons joined them in 1800.

The city survived being attacked by the French in 1794. In 1800 the people revolted but the British retook control. From 1808 to 1874, the city was the capital of British West Africa. The city grew quickly as many freed slaves came to live there. African soldiers who had fought for Britain in the Napoleonic Wars also came to live in Freetown. During World War II, Britain had a naval base at Freetown. Descendants of the freed slaves, called Creoles, have a large role in the city, even though they are only a small amount of the population.

The city had much fighting in the late 1990s. In 1998, it was captured by ECOWAS soldiers who were trying to make Ahmad Tejan Kabbah the President again.

One of Freetown’s most most known features is its famous cotton tree. The cotton tree is said to have been in the same position since colonists came to the area in 1787. At that time, the tree was still a young sapling. It now stands outside the Freetown Museum.

Notable buildings in the city include Freetown Law Courts, the Slave Gate and Portuguese Steps, St John's Maroon Church (built around 1820), St George's Cathedral (completed in 1828), Foulah Town Mosque (built in the 1830s) and the Roman Catholic Sacred Heart Cathedral. Also in Freetown are many beaches and markets, and the Sierra Leone Museum.

The city is the home of Fourah Bay College and the Njala University college.

Lungi International Airport is the international airport of Sierra Leone. Freetown also has a heliport on Aberdeen Island. It connects the city with the airport. There is a helicopter, hovercraft and ferry-service from the city to the airport.


Michelle Obama

Michelle LaVaughn Robinson Obama (born January 17, 1964) is an American lawyer and author. She was the first lady of the United States from 2009 to 2017 as the wife of the 44th president of the United States, Barack Obama. She was also the first African-American first lady.

As first lady, Obama was a role model for women. She worked as an advocate for poverty awareness, education, nutrition, physical activity, and healthy eating. She supported American designers and was considered a fashion icon.

Michelle LaVaughn Robinson was born on January 17, 1964, at Provident Hospital of Cook County in Chicago, Illinois, to Fraser Robinson III, a city water plant employee and Marian Shields Robinson. Her mother was a full-time homemaker until Robinson entered high school.

By sixth grade, Robinson attended Mawr Elementary School. She attended Whitney Young High School, where she was on the honor roll for four years, took advanced placement classes, was a member of the National Honor Society and served as student council treasurer. She graduated in 1981.

Robinson enrolled into Princeton University in 1981. She majored in sociology and minored in African-American studies and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1985.

While at Princeton, Robinson became involved with the Third World Center, an academic and cultural group who supported minority students. She ran their daycare center, which also offered after school tutoring for older children. 

As part of her requirements for graduation, she wrote a sociology thesis, titled "Princeton-Educated Blacks and the Black Community".

Robinson pursued professional study, earning her Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School in 1988. At Harvard, Robinson participated in demonstrations advocating the hiring of professors who were members of minority groups. She worked for the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau, assisting low-income tenants with housing cases.

Following law school, Obama became an associate at the Chicago office of the law firm Sidley & Austin, where she worked on marketing and property law.

In 1993, she became executive director for the Chicago office of Public Allies, a non-profit organization encouraging young people to work on social issues in nonprofit groups and government agencies.

In 1996, Obama served as the Associate Dean of Student Services at the University of Chicago. In 2002, she began working for the University of Chicago Hospitals, first as executive director for community affairs and, beginning May 2005, as vice president for Community and External Affairs.

Robinson met Barack Obama when they were among the few African Americans at their law firm, Sidley Austin LLP. Their relationship started with a business lunch and then a community organization meeting.

They got married on October 3, 1992. Their first daughter, Malia Ann was born in July 1998 and their second daughter, Sasha was born June 2001.

Obama became the first lady of the United States when her husband was sworn in as the 44th president on January 20, 2009. She became the first African-American first lady in American history.

As first lady, Obama visited homeless shelters and soup kitchens. She also sent representatives to schools and advocated public service.

Obama's initiatives as first lady were: Let's Move!, Reach Higher, Let Girls Learn, and Joining Forces. Some initiatives included advocating for military families. She made supporting military families and spouses a personal mission and increasingly bonded with military families.

In January 2010, Obama started an initiative, which she named "Let's Move!", to make progress in reversing the 21st-century trend of childhood obesity. On February 9, 2010, President Barack Obama created the Task Force on Childhood Obesity to review all current programs and create a national plan for change.

In 2010, she wore clothes, many high end, from more than fifty designer companies. She wore sleeveless dresses by Michael Kors, and her ball gowns designed by Jason Wu for both inaugurals. She has also been known for wearing clothes by African designers such as Mimi Plange, Duro Olowu, Maki Oh, and Osei Duro.

Obama appeared on the cover in the March 2009 issue of "Vogue". She later appeared two more times on the cover of "Vogue", while first lady, the last time in December 2016, with photographs by Annie Leibovitz. In August 2011, she became the first woman ever to appear on the cover of "Better Homes and Gardens" magazine.

In 2021, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.

Obama's memoir, "Becoming", was released in November 2018. By November 2019, it had sold 11.5 million copies. A documentary titled "Becoming", which chronicles Obama's book tour promoting the memoir, was released on Netflix on May 6, 2020. She received Grammy Award for Best Audio Book, Narration & Storytelling Recording in 2020 for audio book.

In July 2020, she premiered a podcast titled "The Michelle Obama Podcast". In February 2021, Obama was announced as an executive producer and presenter on a children's cooking show, "Waffles + Mochi." It was released by Netflix on March 16, 2021.

On July 21, 2022, it was announced that Obama's next book, "The Light We Carry: Overcoming in Uncertain Times", would be published in November 2022. The book was published by Penguin Random House. In 2023, Obama received a Emmy Award for the Netflix documentary film "".

In November 2023, Obama was named to the BBC's 100 Women list.

"Time" magazine features an annual "Person of the Year" cover story in which "Time" recognizes the individual or group of individuals who have had the biggest impact on news headlines over the previous twelve months. In 2020, the magazine decided to retroactively choose a historically deserving woman for each year in which a man had been named Person of the Year, reflecting the fact that a woman or women had been named Person of the Year only eleven times in the preceding hundred. As part of this review, Michelle Obama was named the Woman of the Year for 2008.

Fame (musical)

Fame – The Musical is a musical. Jose Fernandez wrote the book. Jacques Levy wrote the lyrics. Steve Margoshes wrote the music. The musical is based on "Fame", a 1980 movie.

The musical premiered in 1980 in Miami, Florida. It opened on the West End in 1995. It played Off-Broadway between 2003 and 2004. The story tells of students in a high school for the performing arts.


Prime Minister of Japan

The is the head of the government of Japan as well as the director and chief of the executive branch of the central government. The prime minister appoints the cabinet and wields the power to dismiss any cabinet minister.

The current prime minister is Fumio Kishida since 4 October 2021.



Emperor Suizei

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

The "Gukanshō" records that Suizei ruled from the palace of "Takaoka-no-miya" at Katsuragi in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

Suizei is almost certainly a legend. The "Kojiki" records only his name and genealogy. The "Nihonshoki" includes Suizei as the earliest or first of .

The "Gukanshō" records that Suizei was one of the sons of Emperor Jimmu.

During reign of Emperor Suizei, the capital of Japan was at Kazuraki, Yamato.

The Kojiki includes a story about how Suizei attained the throne. His older brother supported Suizei because of his courage.

The absence of information about Suizei does not imply that no such person ever existed. Very little information is available for study prior to the reign of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei (509?-571).

This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was ascribed to Suizei.

The actual site of his grave is not known. According to the Imperial Household Agency, this emperor is venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine ("misasagi") at Nara.


Emperor Annei

 was the 3rd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Historians consider Emperor Annei to be a legendary person, and the name Annei"-tennō" was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

The "Gukanshō" records that he ruled from the palace of "Ukena-no-miya" at Katashiro in Kawachi in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

Annei is almost certainly a legend. The "Kojiki" records only his name and genealogy. The "Nihonshoki" includes Annei as the second of .

The "Gukanshō" records that Annei was either the eldest son or the only son of Emperor Suizei.

During reign of Emperor Annei, the capital of Japan was at Katashiha, Kawachi.

The absence of information about Annei does not imply that no such person ever existed. Very little information is available for study prior to the reign of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei (509?-571).

The spirit ("kami") of Emperor Annei and the events of his life are enshrined at "Annei-tennō-sha" at Shirakashi in Yamato province.

This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was ascribed to Annei.

The actual site of his grave is not known. According to the Imperial Household Agency, this emperor is venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine ("misasagi") at Nara.


Emperor Itoku

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

The "Gukanshō" records that he ruled from the palace of "Migario-no-miya" at Karu in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

Itoku is almost certainly a legend. The "Kojiki" records only his name and genealogy. The "Nihonshoki" includes Itoku as the third of .

The "Gukanshō" records that Itoku was the second or third son of Emperor Annei, but the surviving documents provide no basis for making guesses about why the elder brother or brothers were passed over.

During reign of Emperor Itoku, the capital of Japan was at Karu, Yamato.

The absence of information about Itoku does not imply that no such person ever existed. Very little information is available for study prior to the reign of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei (509?-571).

This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was ascribed to Itoku.

The actual site of his grave is not known. According to the Imperial Household Agency, this emperor is venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine ("misasagi") at Nara.


Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria

The Coptic Orthodox Church (; ) or Coptic Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria is the name for the largest Christian church in Egypt. The Coptic Orthodox Church is an Oriental Orthodox Christian church. Its churches can be found worldwide, where it serves Coptic believers who have emigrated to other countries.

On the 18th November 2012, the Coptic Orthodox Church enthroned His Holiness Pope Tawadros II as the 118th Pope of Alexandria and Patriarch of the See of St. Mark. His Holiness is the successor to H.H. Pope Shenouda III who died in March 2012 after over forty years as the shepherd of all Copts.

The Church belongs to the Oriental Orthodox family of churches. It has been a separate church body since the disagreement at the Council of Chalcedon in 451 AD. The Church rejected the new definitions about what Christ is like, introduced at the council.

The Church has daughter churches in Ethiopia and Eritrea, which now elect their own Popes.

The Copts believe that their church was founded in Egypt by Saint Mark the Evangelist. According to official Egyptian sources, and the CIA World factbook, between five an ten percent of Egyptians are Christians. Over 90% of these are Copts. According to Coptic sources, 12 to 15% of Egyptians are Copts.

Pretoria

Pretoria is one of the three capital cities of the African country of South Africa. It is the executive (administrative) and de facto capital of the country. The other two capitals are Cape Town (legislative) and Bloemfontein (judicial). The city is in the northern part of Gauteng Province, South Africa.

Pretoria is between the Highveld and the Bushveld, about 50 km north of Johannesburg in the north-east of South Africa. It is in a warm, well sheltered valley. The valley is surrounded by the hills of the Magaliesberg mountain range. Pretoria has a humid subtropical climate (Cwa in the Köppen climate classification). Snow is a very rare event. It only snows in Pretoria once or twice in a century.

The city has a population of about 1.9 million people. The main languages spoken in Pretoria include Tswana, Ndebele, Afrikaans, and English.

Nguni-speaking settlers were probably the first people to live in the river valley that later became the location of the city of Pretoria.

Pretoria was founded in 1855 by Marthinus Wessel Pretorius. He was a leader of the Voortrekkers. Pretoruis named the city after his father Andries Pretorius. Andries Pretorius had become a hero of the Voortrekkers after the Battle of Blood River. The city became the capital of the South African Republic (ZAR) on May 1, 1860.

During the First Boer War, the city was attacked in December 1880 and March 1881. The peace treaty which ended the war was signed in Pretoria on August 3, 1881 at the Pretoria Convention.

The Second Boer War (1899 to 1902) caused the end of the South African Republic. After this war, the United Kingdom took control of South Africa. During the war, Winston Churchill was imprisoned in the Staats Model School in Pretoria. He later got free and went to Mozambique. The city surrendered to British forces on June 5, 1900. The war ended in Pretoria with the signing of the Peace of Vereeniging on May 31 1902.

In 1910, Pretoria then became the administrative capital of all of South Africa, with Cape Town the legislative capital. Between 1860 and 1994, the city was also the capital of the province of Transvaal. On 14 October 1931, Pretoria got official city status. When South Africa became a republic in 1961, Pretoria stayed its administrative capital.

Pretoria was at one time seen as "the capital of Apartheid South Africa". This was changed when Nelson Mandela became the country's first black President.
Elon Musk the founder, chairman, CEO and chief technology officer of SpaceX; angel investor, CEO, product architect and former chairman of Tesla, Inc.; owner, chairman and CTO of X Corp.; founder of the Boring Company; co-founder of Neuralink and OpenAI; and president of the Musk Foundation. He is the wealthiest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of US$241 billion as of September 2023, according to the "Bloomberg Billionaires Index", and $261 billion according to "Forbes", primarily from his ownership stakes in both Tesla and SpaceX

Pretoria is an important industrial centre. It has many industries including iron and steel as well as automobile, railroad and machinery manufacture.






Reza Alinejad

Reza Alinejad (رضا علی نژاد, born September 21, 1985) is an Iranian at risk of execution for accidentally killing a man in self-defense when he was 17 years old.

He is subject of several human rights campaigns, who protesting against his sentence, because of evidence that his act was a self-defense and he was under age if 18 - his death sentence is a violation of international law, Tehran had signed.

Recently, his case was transferred to Tehran for Head of Judiciary Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi review.



Bigotry

A bigot is a person who is intolerant toward those who hold different opinions from oneself. It is often mistakenly thought to be intolerance to the opinions or beliefs of others. Hence, a person who is tolerant of a another person with different opinions or beliefs but is not tolerant of those opinions or beliefs is not a bigot. 

The origin of the word "bigot" in English dates back to at least 1598, via French. It started with the sense of "religious hypocrite", especially a woman.

The word "bigot" is often used as a pejorative term against a person who is obstinately devoted to negative prejudices, even when those prejudices are proven to be false.

Forms of bigotry may have a related ideology.

The exact origin of the word is unknown, but may have come from the German "bei" and "gott", or the English "by God". William Camden wrote that the Normans were first called bigots, when their Duke Rollo, who receiving Gisla, daughter of King Charles, in marriage, and with her the investiture of the dukedom, refused to kiss the king's foot in token of subjection, unless the king would hold it out for that purpose. And being urged to it by those present, Rollo answered hastily, "No by God", whereupon the king turning about, called him "bigot"; which name passed from him to his people. This is likely fictional, however, as Gisla is unknown in Frankish sources.




Bukkake

Bukkake is when multiple men ejaculate with their penises on a person's face or body at the same time. It comes from the Japanese verb "bukkakeru" which means "to flood".

Melleruds IF

Melleruds IF is an association football club in Mellerud in Sweden, established on 29 July 1908. They are in the Swedish 2nd Division: Västra Götaland. They have had some players who have moved into England, most notably Wigan Athletic F.C. player Andreas Johansson. Johansson played for Melleruds between 1993 and 1995.


Lisa Lampanelli

Lisa Lampanelli (born Lisa Lampugnale, July 19, 1961) is an American comedian.

Detroit Tigers

The Detroit Tigers are a Major League Baseball team in Detroit, Michigan. The team plays at Comerica Park. Their manager is Ron Gardenhire, and they are owned by Christopher Ilitch.

The Tigers began as a minor league baseball team in the 1890s. The league was reorganized as the American League, and became a major league in 1901. The Tigers were one of the first teams to have an "official" nickname. They obtained permission from a military group called the Detroit Light Guard, which was known as the "Tigers". That group had fought in the Civil War and the Spanish-American War.

The Tigers have often lived up to their nickname, having great success from time to time. Their most famous player was Ty Cobb, usually regarded as among the very greatest players of all time. The Tigers have frequently played in baseball's post-season games. They have won several World Series, in 1935, 1945, 1968 and 1984. They also played in the World Series in 2006 and 2012, where they lost to the St. Louis Cardinals and the San Francisco Giants, respectively.


Oscilloscope

An oscilloscope (sometimes abbreviated CRO, for cathode ray oscilloscope, or commonly just scope or O-scope) is a piece of electronic equipment that lets you see changes in signal voltage. For example, if you want to see the signal a small electronic timer was producing, you could connect it to an oscilloscope and see.

Usually, it shows a two-dimensional graph of one or more electrical potential differences on the vertical axis. These graphs are plotted with time or some other voltage along horizontal axis.

A typical oscilloscope is usually box shaped with a display screen, numerous input connectors, control knobs and buttons on the front panel. To aid measurement, a grid called the "graticule" is drawn on the face of the screen. Each square in the graticule is known as a "division".

Girl Scout cookie

Girl Scout cookies are cookies that the Girl Scouts of the USA sell. They come in many different flavors. Buying Girl Scout Cookies helps the Girl Scouts out because it gives them money as well as helps teach them important lessons in life.

Nancy Drew

Nancy Drew is a fictional character. She is the main character in a series of chapter books called "Nancy Drew Mystery Stories". Her books were written in the 1930s by Edward Stratemeyer, founder of the Stratemeyer Syndicate. The first writings in The Nancy Drew Mystery Stories were written by Mildred A. Wirt Benson, and changed by Harriet Adams, Edward's daughter. Nancy Drew's birth year is 1914 and she is 18 years old in the books. 

Nancy Drew lives in the fictional River Heights with her father, Carson Drew. Their housekeeper, Hannah Gruen, has acted like a mother to Nancy, ever since Nancy's mother died when she was three years old. Nancy has a few close friends that appear in the book series and some of them in the computer games. When the book series first begins, Nancy's best friend is Helen Corning, who is a few years older than Nancy. A few books later, some new friends are introduced. Nancy's two best friends in the later books are Bess Marvin and George Fayne, the latter two being cousins. Ned Nickerson, Nancy's boyfriend, first appears in the book, "The Clue in the Diary." Bess, George, and Ned all appear in the computer games and Helen Corning is never mentioned.

The books were originally written in the 1930s. Through the years, the books have been changed slightly. There are currently 54 books documenting the teen's fictional mysteries.
These are the Nancy Drew Games that were made by Her Interactive. The games are rated "E" (Everyone) by the ESRB.


There have been various film and television versions made about "Nancy Drew".



Arthur Abraham

Arthur Abraham (born Avetik Abrahamyan on 20 February 1980 in Yerevan, Armenia) is a professional boxer. He was the IBF middleweight champion from 2005 to 2009. He won the vacant title on December 10, 2005, in Leipzig, Germany, beating Kingsley Ikeke, by a fifth-round knockout.

Arthur changed his weight class to compete at super middleweight.

Abraham trains under Ulli Wegner in Berlin, Germany and is managed by Wilfried Sauerland.

"International:"

"Major World Titles:"

"Regional/International Titles:"


International Boxing Federation

The International Boxing Federation, or "IBF", is one of many organizations which sanction world championship boxing bouts, alongside the WBA, WBC, WBO, and a dozen or so others.


Vic Darchinyan

Vic Darchinyan (, born January 7, 1976, in Vanadzor, Armenia) is the former IBF flyweight champion. He is a left-handed boxer who currently trains under Billy Hussein, brother of boxers Nedal and Hussein Hussein. He was previously trained by former three-division world champion Jeff Fenech in Sydney, Australia.


Atenism

Atenism was one of the earliest monotheistic religions. It was the worship of the light emanating from the sun god (or rather sun disk), Aten. It was started by the 18 dynasty pharaoh Amenhotep IV, better known as Akhenaten. It lasted 20 years, until Akhenaten's death. Tutankhamun, Akhenaten's son, restored the traditional Egyptian religion. Today modern day groups have attempted to revive Atenism as a worldwide religion, most notably Akhetaten Fellowship.


Steak

Steak is a slice off a larger piece of meat, usually beef. In North America, steaks are usually grilled. They are also often pan fried or baked. The most tender (softest) cuts of the animal are usually used for steak. This also means that steaks have a high price. The pieces of meat used for steaks are usually cut across the muscle fiber, not along it. This makes them look more tender.

A restaurant that mainly makes steaks is known as a steakhouse. A well-known side dish to steak is prawns or a cooked lobster tail. This combination is often called "surf and turf" or "reef and beef" (the words "surf" and "reef" refer to the seafood and "turf" and "beef" refer to the steak). Special steak knives are used to cut steak. A steak knife is sharper than most table knives and is usually serrated.

Fish is not the only side dish for steak. Other common side dishes are baked potatoes, dinner rolls, salad, and corn on the cob. In France, steaks are often served with french fries. This combination is known as "steak fries" or "steak-frites". They do not come with vegetables, but sometimes a salad is served with them.

Steaks are seasoned with salt and black pepper. Some additional seasonings are garlic, rosemary, and other herbs and spices. Marinades are also an option depending on the cut. Butter can also be used for basting steaks for a milky flavor. Often, steaks are served with a special sauce called "steak sauce", but sometimes steaks are served with a spicy sauce called horseradish.

Steak comes in a wide variety of cuts, which come from different parts of the cow.
Some different cuts are:

Meat that is cooked less will appear to be more tender and soft. The usual degrees of cooking for steaks (and some other meats) are:

Jet engine

A jet engine is any engine that creates force by releasing a high speed jet of a liquid or a gas.

An example of a jet engine is a full balloon that is not held closed. It will release the air and push the balloon forward.

Turbojet engines are used on airplanes. Turbojet engines have a gas compressor, a kind of fan, at the front that takes in air. The engine burns fuel to make the air expand, and it blows a big wind out the back. On the way out, the hot air turns another fan (a gas turbine) which turns the rod that turns the fan at the front to make it go.

Another kind of a jet engine is a rocket engine. Ramjet and pulse jet engines are rarer kinds of jet engine. 


Dawn Fraser

Dawn Fraser (born 4 September 1937) is an Australian champion swimmer. She is one of only two swimmers to win the same Olympic event three different times. She was born in Balmain, New South Wales.

In 1988, Fraser was elected to the parliament of New South Wales. She served until 1991.


NBC News

NBC News is the news division of American television network NBC. NBC News makes MSNBC channel, Today Show and news programmes.





CBS News

CBS News is the news division of American television network CBS.



Masters Tournament

The Masters Tournament is one of four major championships in men's professional golf and the first of the four to be played each year. The final round of the Masters is always scheduled for the second Sunday in April. Unlike the other major championships, the Masters is held every year at the same location, Augusta National Golf Club, a private golf club in the city of Augusta, Georgia, USA.


NFL Europa

The NFL Europa was a European American football league that ran from 1991 to 2007 under the control of the National Football League. It started off as the World League of American Football and had 3 teams in Europe, 6 in the USA and one in Canada. After 2 years the league was put on hold, so there were no 1993 or 1994 seasons. The league came back in 1995 as a purely European league, with the 3 original European teams plus 3 new ones. In 1998 the name of the league was changed to NFL Europe and then in 2007 it became NFL Europa. After the 2007 season, the NFL ceased operations of the league. This was a developmental league of the NFL. The were the league's best team, winning 42 games and 3 World Bowls


Ennead

The Ennead was the grouping of nine deities, most often appearing in Egyptian mythology. As a three of threes, the number nine became associated with great power. The ancient peoples thought that groupings of nine gods were very important.

Heliopolis (ancient)

Heliopolis was one of the oldest cities of Egypt. Its name also refers (in European languages) to a modern suburb of Cairo. The ancient city stood five miles east of the Nile north of the apex of the river delta. The modern city of Heliopolis is in a different place. In ancient times it was the main city of sun-worship.

This was also where the Heliopolitan version of Egyptian mythology was created. 

Akhenaten

Akhenaten (first known as Amenhotep IV) was a pharaoh of the Eighteenth dynasty of Egypt. His reign is dated as 1353–1336 BC or 1351–1334 BC.

Akhenaten is one of Egypt's most well-known pharaohs.
In the fifth year of his reign, he changed his name from Amenhotep IV, meaning "Amun is satisfied". He did this because he left Egypt's traditional polytheism. He founded a monotheistic worship of the Egyptian sun god, Aten. He destroyed the temples of Amun. His new religion was called Atenism. It was the first known attempt at monotheism in the world. Naturally, this made enemies of the many priests of the old religion. 

This culture shift away from traditional religion was not widely accepted. This helps to explain why after his death, his monuments were dismantled, his statues were destroyed, and his name excluded from lists of rulers compiled by later pharaohs. Traditional religious practice was gradually restored, notably under his close successor Tutankhamun, who changed his name from Tutankhaten early in his reign. However, it was Horemheb who destroyed all the works of Akhenaten.

Akhenaten was all but lost to history until the late 19th century discovery of Amarna, the new capital city he built for the worship of Aten. 
Its rediscovery and Flinders Petrie's early excavations sparked great public interest in the pharaoh and his queen Nefertiti. The interest comes from his connection with Tutankhamun, the unique style and high quality of the pictorial arts he patronized, and interest in the religion he attempted to establish.

Bartonella rochalimae

Bartonella rochalimae is a recently discovered strain of gram-negative bacteria. It is a member of the "Bartonella" genus. The bacteria was found by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco. Scientists at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also helped with the discovery.

The bacterium was first found in a 43-year-old American woman. She was in Peru when she became very sick. She had a high fever, anemia and insomnia. The illness was thought to be "Bartonella bacilliformis", a similar bacteria that causes Oroya fever. The scientists later discovered that a new species of bacteria had caused the illness. They gave the patient some antibiotics. Her condition later improved. 

The findings were published in the "New England Journal of Medicine" on June 7, 2007.

Tipi

A tipi (also called tepee or teepee) is a kind of tent. It is cone-shaped. They were made by Native Americans of the Great Plains who frequently moved from place to place, following buffalo or other animals Native Americans hunted.

Tipis are made from long poles, and are covered with material. Long ago the material was animal skin or tree bark. Today, they are made from cloth.

Tepees were put up in as a circle, which symbolized the life.

Tepees are no longer usually used for a full-time home, but they are still used for special occasions.

Tepees were used by the Lakota.

The Plains Indians would sometimes paint and mark their tepees, and put signs to mark off evil.

They usually made the cover from buffalo skin (tanned hide).

Teepees had a flap that could be open and closed as necessary during the summer and winter months

They generally had an 'ears' flap.

The doorway would face towards the rising sun.
Tipis would contain paintings.

Karen Carpenter

Karen Anne Carpenter (March 2, 1950 – February 4, 1983) was an American singer and drummer who was most popular in the 70s. She is known as the singer of the group the Carpenters.

Karen had anorexia nervosa, an eating disorder of extreme weight loss dieting. This was a little-known illness at the time. Although she had begun recovery with a doctor-supervised program and regained 30 lbs (14 kg), permanent damage to her body had been sustained from the years of extreme weight-loss dieting and she died at the age of 32. The cause of her death was heart failure, from complications related to her illness which caused her to believe mistakenly that she needed to lose weight.

Karen Carpenter was born at Yale New Haven Hospital in New Haven, Connecticut on March 2, 1950 to Agnes Reuwer Tatum and Harold Bertram Carpenter. She played baseball a lot, and said that she liked being the pitcher. She had a brother, named Richard Carpenter. While Karen played baseball with her friends, Richard usually played the piano. Her parents, Agnes and Harold Carpenter, decided that they wanted to move to Downey, California, a city near Hollywood. They moved in 1963.

In Downey, Karen attended Downey High School. She was a good student, but did not like gym. In order to get out of gym, she asked to be in the marching band instead. When she got into the marching band, the director gave her the glockenspiel, an instrument that sounds somewhat like a xylophone. Karen did not like the glockenspiel and asked her band director if she could play the drums instead. Seeing Karen's natural talent for rhythm, the director approved. From then on, she practiced drumming on pots and pans before her parents finally bought her a drum set.

Her brother formed the Richard Carpenter Trio in 1965. Karen played the drums. Richard played the piano, and a friend named Wes Jacobs played the electric bass. They played jazz music at clubs in Hollywood. They entered the Battle of the Bands contest at the Hollywood Bowl in 1966. The Richard Carpenter Trio played "The Girl From Ipanema" and "Iced Tea," a song composed by Richard Carpenter. They won the Battle of the Bands that year. Afterwards, they signed with RCA Records, but the RCA thought their music would not sell, so RCA let them go. The Richard Carpenter Trio made one last TV appearance on "Your All American College Show" in 1968, where they played "Dancing in the Street." Karen had a great drum solo. They won the "Your All American College Show" contest, too.

In 1967, Richard and Karen formed another group called Spectrum. Spectrum focused on making big harmonies, and the public did not like their music. Both the Richard Carpenter Trio and Spectrum disbanded in 1968.

After five years of going nowhere, Richard and Karen Carpenter wanted to sign with a record label, but were constantly rejected. Joe Osborn, a bass player, had recording studio and let Richard and Karen record demo tapes. They sent in those demo tapes to a man named Herb Alpert. Herb Alpert appreciated Richard and Karen's music, and agreed to sign the two to his record label, A&M Records.

In April 1969, Richard and Karen Carpenter signed to A&M Records as "Carpenters." They released their first album that year as well. It was called "Offering." It did not have any popular songs on there, except for a song called "Ticket to Ride." When they released it as a single, the public's reaction was somewhat less than great. Too many people were accustomed to the Beatles' version.

The next year, Herb Alpert recommended a song called "(They Long to Be) Close to You." After being given the music, Richard Carpenter worked on arranging it to invent their own sound. This song was their first major hit. It went to #1 on the Billboard Hot 100.

Later that year, the Carpenters recorded another song, called "We've Only Just Begun." It was originally for a commercial for a bank called "Crocker Bank", but Richard saw potential in it. He again began working on the arrangement and the song was released. Ultimately, "We've Only Just Begun" released it as a single, went to #2 on the Billboard Hot 100.

Throughout their career, Karen and Richard continued to be successful and release great singles. All of them placed in the top 20 until 1977. In 1977, both singles released only peaked at #32 and #35. Their last top 20 released in 1981 "Touch Me When We're Dancing" peaked at #16. This was seen as a successful "come back" for the Carpenters however Karen would pass away just two years later.

Karen also recorded her first and only solo album entitled "Karen Carpenter" in 1979-1980 while her brother Richard took time off to recover from an addiction to prescription sleeping pills. The album was not released during Karen's lifetime and would remain the A&M vaults until 1996 when Richard Carpenter finally felt the time was right to release it. Karen dedicated her solo to her brother "Dedicated to my brother Richard... With all my heart..." Karen's fans have had a mixed reaction to her solo album but the majority believe the album was strong enough to be released at the time that it was recorded and would have had few strong hits for the singer. However Karen choose to shelve the album after it was negatively received by the powers that be at A&M Records and her brother.

With the Carpenters, Karen Carpenter had a lot of records. Here is a list of them. The "italicized" words are the names of the records, and the things in the (parentheses) are the years that the records were released.


Luke the Evangelist

Luke the Evangelist is said to be the man who wrote the Gospel of Luke and Acts of the Apostles in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. Irenaeus, Eusebius of Caesarea and Jerome say that he was a friend of Saint Paul and a doctor, and that he accompanied Paul on some of his travels. These people also say that he was of Greek origin, from Antioch in Syria.

Modern-day scholars think that the person that wrote the two books was not the same that accompanied Paul. Paul had a theology that was special, and slightly different from that of other writers of the New Testament. The two books written by Luke never refer to this theology. Also, the name of Paul's companion is never linked to writing the two books. The Acts of the Apostles often tell things about Paul which Paul does not tell himself in his letters. 

Luke wrote about the Three Wise Men who visited Jesus in the Bible. Luke never said there were 3 wise men, only wise men from the east.

Walid Eido

Walid Eido (in Arabic: وليد عيدو) (Beirut, 1942 - Beirut, June 13, 2007) was a Lebanese man who worked for the Lebanese Parliament, a government building in Beirut. He died with his son on June 13, 2007, with eight other people, when a bomb blew up just outside a famous amusement park. This was at the waterside of north Beirut.

Walid Eido was Sunni Muslim. He was born in the Bachoura area of Beirut. He finished his studies at the Lebanese University in 1966. In the late 1990s, he worked for the Lebanese law of north Lebanon, but, in the year 2000, he quit to go into political life with Mr. Rafic Hariri and to be in the Lebanese parliament. Later on, he worked for the Lebanese Parliament. He used to belong to Al-Murabitun militant group at the time of the Lebanese civil war, he left the Murabitun when this group starts to expand and take bad members in.

Eido was married with three sons named Khaled, Zaher and Mazen. Eido was a good swimmer and the bomb exploded outside his favorite Beirut beach resort, Sporting Club.

Toyama Prefecture

The area of Toyama Prefecture comes from Etchū Province. 

The Itai-itai disease, whose origin is from polluted water with cadmium, occurred in Toyama around 1950.

Toyama Prefecture is bordered by Ishikawa Prefecture to the west, Niigata Prefecture to the northeast, Nagano Prefecture to the southeast, Gifu Prefecture to the south and the Sea of Japan to the north.

The most famous mountain in Toyama is Mount Tate.

Toyama is known for its great mountains and rich fishery. , and mass product of tulip industry are also famous. 

Toyama is an industrial prefecture because companies like YKK and Sankyo Aluminum have been able to take advantage of cheap hydro-electricity generated by rivers flowing from its high mountains.

National Parks are established in about 30% of the total land area of the prefecture, including

"Takase taisha", "Keta jinja", and "Oyama jinja" are the chief Shinto shrines ("ichinomiya") in the prefecture. 


Fouad Siniora

Fouad Siniora (in Arabic: فؤاد السنيورة, Fu'ād As-Sanyūrah) was the Prime Minister of Lebanon. He served as Prime Minister since July 19, 2005, after Najib Mikati left office. His term ended on November 9, 2009. He was succeed by Saad Hariri. He was also acting president from November 2007 to May 2008.

Fouad Siniora is a Sunni Muslim, who was born in Sidon in 1943. He finished his studies at the American University of Beirut. Then, he worked for Citibank, and in the 1970s, he became a teacher at the American University of Beirut. Later, he worked for the Central Bank. In 1982, he started to work for the late Prime Minister, Rafik Hariri. He became part of Hariri's business. Siniora was Minister of Finance in Lebanon after the civil war ended.

Hassan Nasrallah

Hassan Nasrallah (in ; born 30 August 1960) is the leader of the Islamist party in Lebanon called Hezbollah.He is also a Shi'a Muslim cleric. He is widely credited in Lebanon and the Arab world for expelling Israel from Lebanon in the year 2000 and for the prisoners exchange deals that saw many Lebanese and Palestinians getting freed. Some countries, like the United States and Britain, consider him to be a terrorist due to his attacks on Israel.

Hassan Nasrallah was born in Bourj Hammoud, east Beirut. He was among ten children in his family. He went to Al Najah school, and then a public school in Sin el-Fil, Beirut. The civil war in 1975 caused his family to move to their old home in Bassouriyeh. There, he finished his secondary education at the public school in Tyre. He then joined the Amal Movement, a militant group that represents the Shi'a Muslims in Lebanon. He used to organize the local religious youth into a study group at the village’s Islamic library. Soon he was made the representative of Amal movement in his village at just the age of 15.


Sidon

Sidon, or Saida (, Saydā; , , Zaydo'wn), is the third biggest city in Lebanon. It is in the southern part of Lebanon at the waterside of the Mediterranean Sea. The name "Sidon" means a fishery.

Sidon was one of the most important cities of Phoenicia. From here, a great trading empire of the Mediterranean area was made. It was known for people who were good in making glass and purple cloth dyes. Glass making was a very important business in Sidon during in Phoenician times. People also made purple cloth dye.

Chisel

A chisel is a sharp and straight tool often used with a hammer to shape wood or other surfaces. Chisels are used by artists to make statues and figures out of stone, marble, or wood. Construction workers use chisels to change the shape of wood and stone so that they can build with them. Sometimes chisels are used to break things so that they can be moved more easily.

Parallel

Parallel could mean:


In music:

Other:


Oak Park, Illinois

Oak Park, Illinois is a suburb of Chicago. It is west of the city in the same county. About 54,000 people live there. 

Ernest Hemingway was born there. Betty White was born there too. Frank Lloyd Wright lived and worked there for a while. Some of his most famous houses and buildings were built there.

Ring Lardner

Ringgold Wilmer Lardner (March 6, 1885 – September 25, 1933) was an American sports columnist and short story writer best known for his satirical takes on the sports world, marriage, and the theatre.

Lardner was born in Niles, Michigan. He died of tuberculosis in East Hampton, New York.

His son Ring Lardner Jr was a screenwriter who was banned from Hollywood in the 1950s for his Communist beliefs. He later won an Academy Award for writing the film MASH.

Björk

Björk was born Björk Guðmundsdóttir on 21 November 1965 in Reykjavík, Iceland. She is an Icelandic singer, songwriter, composer, actress, record producer and DJ.

Her career started with singing Tina Charles' 1976 hit song "I Love to Love" in a school recital, and a recording of her singing the song was sent to the RÚV radio station. The recording was nationally broadcast, after that, Björk was offered a recording contract. Her self-titled début album, "Björk", was recorded and released in Iceland in December 1977. Before embarking on a solo career in 1993, Björk was the lead singer of alternative rock band The Sugarcubes, which is called as "Iceland's biggest rock band". Since then, she has received consistent critical praise for her innovative vocal and compositional approaches, musical experimentation, and art direction, and is recognized as one of the best singer-songwriters of her generation. Her albums reached the top 20 in the "Billboard 200" chart.

Björk has won five BRIT Awards, four MTV Video Music Awards, one MOJO Award, three UK Music Video Awards, 21 Icelandic Music Awards and, in 2010, the Polar Music Prize from the Royal Swedish Academy of Music in recognition of her "deeply personal music and lyrics, her precise arrangements and her unique voice". She has also been nominated for 14 Grammy Awards, one Academy Award, and two Golden Globe Awards. She was included in Time Magazine's list of the 100 most influential people in the world. She won the Best Actress Award at the 2000 Cannes Film Festival for her performance in the movie "Dancer in the Dark".

She has a son and a daughter, Sindri and Isadòra. She lives in New York City, but also owns a home in Reykjavík.

Björk was in the 2013 television documentary "When Björk Met Attenborough" with Sir David Attenborough.


List of years

This page indexes the individual years pages. 

Volumetric flask

A volumetric flask (vol flask for short) is a type of laboratory glassware. It is used to hold and measure accurate amounts of liquid. It is shaped like a Florence flask, but has a flatter bottom. A volumetric flask has a tall, narrow neck with a stopper that can be used to close the opening at the top. There is a line on the neck to show how much to fill the flask. Volumetric flasks are made in many sizes, from a few milliliters to liters. They are often used to make liquid solutions. The neck is narrow to make measurements more exact when making a solution. 

Florence flask

A Florence flask (also known as a boiling flask) is a type of flask. It is a piece of laboratory glassware. It can hold chemical solutions. The flask has a round body with a long neck. The flask usually come in volumes of 1 liter.

Motion Picture Association

The Motion Picture Association (MPA), originally called the Motion Picture Association of America, is a non-profit group based in the United States. Its members are the "big six" major Hollywood studios: Netflix, Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures (The Walt Disney Company), Sony Pictures (Sony), Paramount Pictures (Paramount Global), Universal Studios (Comcast), and Warner Bros. (Warner Bros. Discovery). It also represents Netflix streaming platform movies. The organization produces the well-known voluntary film rating system. On January 22, 2019, Netflix became the first streaming service to become a member of the MPA.

Long Beach, California

Long Beach is a city in southern Los Angeles County, California, USA, on the Pacific coast. It borders Orange County on its southeast edge. It is about 20 miles (30 km) south of downtown Los Angeles. It is a part of the Greater Los Angeles Area.

The top countries of origin for Long Beach's immigrants are Mexico, the Philippines, Cambodia, El Salvador and Vietnam. 

São Carlos

São Carlos is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. In 2017, it had 246,088 people living in it. It is about 230 km (143 miles) away from the city of São Paulo and has an area of 1,137 km² (441 mi²).

51st state

51st state refers to a place or territory that is not one of the 50 states of the United States, but people think about making it the 51st state. It is sometimes a joke term in American politics, and sometimes a realistic one. It is usually said about the possibility of Puerto Rico or other U.S. territories becoming part of the United States. When used to refer to other countries, it is a joke, usually about Canada. There have been attempts by people in the United States to get Canada to join them (like in the Articles of Confederation), but Canada has never accepted these offers. It is also sometimes used to refer to countries that seem to be controlled by the United States. Before the year 1959 when Alaska and Hawaii became states, the sentence "the 49th state" was used.

Places in the United States that are not states right now, but might become the 51st state include the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, or the Northern Mariana Islands. Besides admitting a new state, another type of proposal has been to form a 51st (or even 52nd) state by dividing a current state, such as the most-populous state (and third-largest state, geographically) of California into two or even three states, or Texas (the second-most populous) into four or five states.

Some regions of the U.S. that include land that is now in two different states and might become a new state include the "State of Jefferson" (Northmost California plus the southern counties of Oregon) and the "State of Lincoln" (Eastmost Washington State plus the northern panhandle of Idaho. A move has also been proposed to separate the westmost one-fourth of Nebraska from that state, but to add that to Wyoming (the least-populous state), rather than to create an entirely new state. This region is actually much closer to Cheyenne, Wyoming, the capital city, than it is to its current capital of Lincoln, Nebraska. 

In 2012 and more recently in 2017, the people of Puerto Rico voted strongly in favor of becoming the 51st state, but the approval of the United States Congress is also needed.

Guyana has also seen political movements favoring and advocating for it to become an American associated territory with eventual statehood as its goal.

Several Canadian Provinces as well as the whole of Canada have had political parties and movements advocating American statehood making their North American location a natural candidate and ideal prospect.

Mogadishu

Mogadishu () is the capital city of the African country of Somalia. It is also the largest city in that country. It is located in the coastal Banadir region on the Somali Sea. The city has been an important port for the region for many centuries. Estimates of the city's population are between 1.5 and 3 million people.

Trade between the people in the Mogadishu area with other areas along the Somali Sea coast of East Africa started as early as the 1st century. Muslim traders from the Arabian Peninsula came to the area during the 10th century. Because of trade with them, Islam spread through Somalia. The Portuguese tried to take control of the city, but failed. In 1871 Barghash bin Said, the sultan of Zanzibar, controlled the city.

In 1892, Ali bin Said let Italy use the city. Italy bought the city in 1905. They made "Mogadiscio" (Italian for Mogadishu) the capital of Italian Somaliland. The Italians took control of the area around the city in 1919 after minor resistance. Italian Mogadiscio grew from a small village of 1,000 inhabitants in the 1890s to a modern capital in 1940 of nearly 100,000 persons (of whom more than 1/3 were Italians), that was second only to Asmara in Eritrea for development inside the Italian Empire.

British forces that were in Kenya during World War II captured Mogadishu on February 26, 1941. The British ruled until they gave Italy control of the city again in 1952. Somalia became independent in 1960 with Mogadishu as its capital.

Rebel forces entered and took the city in 1990. They forced President Mohamed Siad Barre to resign and leave the country in January 1991. He went to Lagos, Nigeria. Some of the rebels said that Ali Mahdi Muhammad was the new president. Others said that Mohamed Farrah Aidid was president. A group of United States Marines landed near Mogadishu on December 9, 1992. They were the first part of the United Nations peacekeeping forces during Operation Restore Hope to go to the country. Mogadishu has had many years of civil war. This is because the government of Somalia fell in 1991. This has included many suicide bombings by jihadist group al-Shabaab. In 2017, an al-Shabaab suicide bomber killed over 500 people.

Mogadishu is a commercial and financial center for Somalia. The economy got better after the Somali Civil War but there are still problems. Because the government does not have control of the whole country, there is less taxation or regulatory costs. This makes businesses not cost as much as it does in other places. Businesses have hired armed militias to have security. This is reducing violence in the city.

The main industries of the city include making food and beverages as well as textiles. The main textile is cotton. The main market many different types of goods from food to electronic items.

Mogadishu has the most port traffic of any port in Somalia. It is still a major seaport. However, there has been a lot of piracy around Somalia's coastal areas. This makes trade risky.



J1 League

The , in the past known as , is part of the Japanese football club system.

J1 League is the top grouping of the .

It is one of the three major titles in Japan, along with J. League Cup and Emperor's Cup.

The second tier is represented by the J2 League.

As of the 2015 season, and continuing through at least the 2019 season, the league uses a multi-stage format.

The regular season is split into two stages. In each stage, each team plays one match against every other team. As in almost all association football leagues worldwide, teams receive 3 points in the standings for a win, 1 point for a draw, and none for a loss, and teams are ranked by points earned.

After the second stage of the regular season, an overall table is calculated. The champions of each stage of the regular season, plus any team finishing in the top three of the overall table, advance to a championship playoff. The team that finishes on top of the overall table receives a place in the championship final, while the other teams play off for the other spot in the final.



Philippine Revolution

The Philippine Revolution (1896–1898) was an armed conflict between the Spanish colonial regime and the Katipunan. The goal of the revolution was for the Philippines to gain independence from Spain.

Victoria, Seychelles

Victoria (sometimes called Port Victoria) is the capital city of the Republic of Seychelles. It is on the north-eastern side of Mahé island, which the main island of the archipelago. The city was first created as the capital of the British colonial government. Victoria has a population of 24,970 people (2002). About one third of the population of the Seychelles lives in the city. Victoria is served by the Seychelles International Airport

The main exports of Victoria are vanilla, coconuts, coconut oil, corn, tortoise shell, soap, and guano. The harbour is a short distance east of the town. Tuna fishing and canning are a major local industry.

Things to see in the city include a clocktower built similar to Little Ben in London, England. It is a small version of Big Ben. Other things include the Courthouse, the Victoria Botanical Gardens, the Victoria National Museum of History, the Victoria Natural History Museum and the Sir Selwyn Selwyn-Clarke Market.

Roe

Roe is the ripe eggs of fish and certain marine animals, for example sea urchins, shrimp and scallop. It is a type of seafood. Roe is used in many different foods. It can be used cooked or raw.

Caviar is a name for sturgeon roe which is eaten as a delicacy. 

Soft roe or white roe is not roe. It is the seminal fluid of fish.

Many different types of roe are used in Japanese cuisine. The following are used raw in sushi:


Roe from the Hilsa fish is a delicacy in West Bengal and Bangladesh. The roe is usually deep-fried. Other ways of cooking it such as mashed roe where the roe crushed along with oil, onion & pepper, or curry of roe could also be found. In the state of Kerala, roe is deep fried in coconut oil and is a delicacy. Among the tribal populace, deeply-roasted roe in open fire (much like marshmallows) is a delicacy. In this region, the roe of rohu is also delicacy. It is eaten fried or put inside a fried pointed gourd to make "potoler dolma".

In the Caspian provinces of Gilan and Mazandaran, several types of roe are used. Called Ashpal or Ashbal, roe can be eaten grilled, cured, salted, or mixed with other things. If salted or cured, it is eaten as a condiment. If used fresh, it is usually grilled, steamed, or mixed with eggs and fried to make a custard-like dish called "Ashpal Kuku".

Roe from Kutum (also known as Caspian White Fish or "Rutilus Frisii Kutum"), Roach (called "Kuli" in Gileki), Bream (called "Kulmeh" in Gileki), and Caspian Salmon are liked very much. Roe from Carp is less common and Barbel roe is also used at times.

Lumpfish ("stenbider") roe is used in Danish cuisine. It is served on top of halved or sliced hard-boiled eggs, on top of piles of shrimp, or with other fish or seafood. Another commonly eaten roe is that from the cod ("torsk").

Tarama is carp roe used to make taramosalata. Taramosolata is a Greek and Turkish food that is made of tarama mixed with lemon juice, bread crumbs, onions, and olive oil. Other food is dipped into it and eaten.

Bottarga is the salted and dried roe pouch of Gray Mullet. It is used as a topping and with pasta.

Smoked and salted cod roe paste is very popular in Sweden. The most famous brand is Kalles Kaviar. The paste is commonly served as sandwich topping. 

Roe eaten in the United Kingdom is usually soft roe instead of hard roe. Herring roe is sold in many British supermarkets but it is not very popular. Battered cod roe can also be bought within many fish and chip shops, mainly around the London area.

Television licence

The television licence (sometimes called the "TV licence" or the "television tax") is a small tax that people pay to watch television. It is used to pay, or part-pay, for the local public broadcaster, such as the BBC in the United Kingdom. It mainly exists in Europe, East Asia and parts of Africa. The licence fee varies in size from a few euros to around 350 euros per year in Iceland. In return for paying the licence, the broadcaster does have few or no adverts. 

In the past, before television was well known, people used to have a radio licence, which is a roughly the same as television licence, but for radio. Some countries still have the radio licence together with the television licence.

Nicosia

Nicosia, also known as Lefkosia (; ) is the capital city and largest city of the island country of Cyprus. Nicosia is on the Pedieos (Kanlidere) river in the centre of the island. The city is the seat of government as well as the main business centre for Cyprus. Nicosia is capital of the administrative district (Nicosia District).

Nicosia is the only divided capital city in the world. It has a northern (Turkish) section and a southern (Cypriot) section. These sections are divided by the "Green Line". It is a demilitarized zone created by the United Nations. Nicosia (southern part) is the capital of the Republic of Cyprus while northern part is capital of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), a de facto state only recognized by Turkey.

Nicosia has a total population of 310,355.

Nicosia has many shops, restaurants and entertainment. The city is a trade center. It manufactures textiles, leather, pottery, plastic, and other items. Copper mines are nearby. The University of Cyprus (UCY) is in Nicosia.

Nicosia has a hot semi-arid climate ("BSh" in the Köppen climate classification).

The highest temperature ever recorded in Nicosia was on 4 September 2020.

Nicosia was a city-state known as Ledra or Ledrae in ancient times. The king of Ledra was Onasagoras in 672 BC. The city was rebuilt by Lefkos, son of Ptolemy I around 300 BC. Ledra in Hellenic and Roman times was a small, unimportant town, also known as Lefkothea. It got its first Christian bishop, Trifillios, in 348.

The city became the island's capital around the 10th century. It had grown in importance because of threats to the coastal cities Paphos and Salamis. These threats made many people leave the coast of the island and move to Lefkosia in the center of the island.

The city became a Venetian possession in 1489. It was captured by the Ottoman Empire in 1571. During this time, the city grew culturally. In the 15th and 16th centuries, many palaces, churches and monasteries were built. About 20,000 people living in the city died because of the Ottoman attack of 1570.
Many disasters happened in the city during the 19th century. Cholera hit the city in 1835. Fire destroyed large parts of Nicosia in 1857.

The British Empire took control of the island in 1878. Nicosia was the capital of the new British colony.

In early 1974, a coup d'état instigated by the Greek junta overthrew the legal government and took control. Shortly afterwards Turkey invaded the island occupying a large part, with excuse that Turkish Cypriot people's safety was threatened. Because of this, Cyprus and the city of Nicosia are divided since. Cyprus with its legal government is part of the European Union. The northern area, controlled by Turkish Cypriots, exists as a unilaterally proclaimed "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" recognized only by Turkey.






Gob

Gob are a Canadian punk band from Burnaby, British Columbia . The band was formed in 1994. The band's sound is based on distorted guitars. They have had many songs used on Electronic Arts's sports video games. The band has appeared on several outdoor music festivals, the most well-known being Vans Warped Tour.




Auckland Grammar School

Auckland Grammar School is a public school in Auckland New Zealand. It teaches boys from age thirteen to eighteen. The school also has some places near the school where students who come from distant places can live. It is one of the biggest schools in New Zealand. The school has more than two thousand students. The School's motto is ""Per Angusta Ad Augusta"". It means "Through Hardship to Glory". This motto is most often reiterated within the school. The current Headmaster is Tim O'Connor.

Auckland Grammar School was first set up in 1868 by Sir George Grey. He was the governor of New Zealand from 1861 to 1868. During that time, the new European settlers were fighting with the Māori people over land rights issues. The Governor of New Zealand asked for military help from the British Empire. Britain sent up to one million soldiers to New Zealand to end the problems. Many of the soldiers settled with their families in Auckland. Sir George Grey decided to create Auckland Grammar School to give a very good education to the soldiers' sons.

Tibbs House was opened in 1962 with 46 boys to provide an opportunity for boys outside of the greater Auckland area to attend Auckland Grammar School.

It was named after the fourth Headmaster of Auckland Grammar School, Mr J W Tibbs MA, CMG, who was Headmaster from 1893 to 1922. A statue of Mr Tibbs can be found at the entrance to Old Tibbs House.

People of all classes or racial background who live in New Zealand are all the same when it comes to being allowed to go to the school. The school believes it is very important to teach many different languages and, in particular, 'the instructing in Latin.' The school tries to get all of the students to do very well in all educational areas, for example, Academic, Sporting and Cultural fields. The school does however show some disregard for national educational standards.



Virginia Beach, Virginia

Virginia Beach is an American city in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The city is in the South Hampton Roads area on the shores of the Chesapeake Bay and the Atlantic Ocean. It is the largest city in Virginia. It is the 42nd largest city in the United States. There are people living there.

Virginia Beach is a part of the Virginia Beach-Norfolk-Newport News metropolitan area. The area also includes the cities of Chesapeake, Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Portsmouth, and Suffolk, as well as other smaller cities, counties and towns of Hampton Roads. The area is known as "America's First Region."
Virginia Beach is best known as a resort town. It has miles of beaches and hundreds of hotels, motels, and restaurants along the Atlantic Ocean and Chesapeake Bay. It is also home to several state parks, three military bases, a number of large corporations, and two universities. It was the site of the first landing of English colonists going to Jamestown.

The city is listed in the "Guinness Book of Records" as having the longest pleasure beach in the world. It is also at the southern end of the Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel, the longest bridge-tunnel in the world.

Chesepians were the Native American (American Indian) people living in the area now known as South Hampton Roads in Virginia during the time the English settlers came in 1607. They lived in an area which is now the cities of Norfolk, Portsmouth, Chesapeake and Virginia Beach.

The Chesepians had two other towns (or villages), Apasus and Chesepioc. Both were near the Chesapeake Bay in what is now Virginia Beach. Archaeologists and other people have found many Native American artifacts, for example arrowheads, stone axes, pottery, beads, and skeletons in the area.

In 1607, after traveling by ocean for 144 days, three ships headed by Captain Christopher Newport came to land where the Atlantic Ocean meets the southern mouth of the Chesapeake Bay. This point is in the northeastern part of the city. They named it Cape Henry, after Henry Frederick, Prince of Wales, the oldest son of King James I of England. They then left the area to find a place farther inland where ships from other European countries would not find them. They created their first settlement at Jamestown. 
Adam Thoroughgood (1604-1640) of Norfolk, England is one of the first Englishmen to settle in the area which became Virginia Beach.

In 1634, the Colony was divided into shires. They were soon renamed counties. It is said that Thoroughgood used the name of his home in England when helping name New Norfolk County in 1637. The following year, New Norfolk County was split into Upper Norfolk County (soon renamed Nansemond County) and Lower Norfolk County. Thoroughgood chose to live along the Lynnhaven River, also named for his home in England. Lower Norfolk County was very big. It stretched all the way from the Atlantic Ocean west past the Elizabeth River. It included the entire area that is now the cities of Portsmouth, Norfolk, Chesapeake, and Virginia Beach.

In 1691, Lower Norfolk County was divided to form Norfolk County to the west and Princess Anne County to the east. Princess Anne included all the area from North Carolina border to Cape Henry at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay along the Atlantic Ocean. Princess Anne County existed from 1691 to 1963, over 250 years.

The small resort area of Virginia Beach began to grow in Princess Anne County in the late 19th century. This growth was helped in 1888 when rail service and electricity started in the area.

The resort was dependent upon railroad and electric trolley service at first. The concrete Virginia Beach Boulevard from Norfolk to the Oceanfront was completed in 1922. It let people get to the oceanfront in automobiles, buses, and trucks. The resort of Virginia Beach became an incorporated town in 1906. Over the next 45 years, Virginia Beach became more popular as a summer vacation spot. Virginia Beach became a small independent city in 1952. It was politically independent from Princess Anne County. In 1963, Virginia Beach and Princess Anne county merged into a new, much larger independent city keeping the name of the Virginia Beach resort.

On May 31, 2019, there was a mass shooting in the city. A man killed 12 people. He was killed by police.

Virginia Beach has an area of 1,288.1 km² (497.3 mi²). Of that area, 643.1 km² (248.3 mi²) is land and 645.0 km² (249.0 mi²) is water. The average elevation is 12 feet (4 meters) above sea level.

The city has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).


The Edgar Cayce Hospital for Research and Enlightenment was started in Virginia Beach in 1928 with 60 beds. Cayce was a psychic from Kentucky who said he had healing abilities and made prophesies. Cayce lived in Virginia Beach until he died in 1945. His followers are still active in Virginia Beach. Atlantic University was opened by Cayce in 1930; it closed two years later but was re-opened in 1985. Atlantic University was originally intended for study of Cayce's readings and research after spiritual subjects.

There are also eleven golf courses open to the public in the city, as well as four country club courses and NAS Oceana's Aeropines course. Among the best-known public courses are Hell's Point Golf Club and the TPC of Virginia Beach.

Virginia Beach is home to several United States Military bases. These include the United States Navy's NAS Oceana and FTC Dam Neck, and the United States Army's Fort Story at Cape Henry. NAB Little Creek is mostly in the city of Virginia Beach but has a Norfolk address.

NAS Oceana is the largest employer in Virginia Beach. It is said to the largest naval airbase in the world.

Virginia Beach has three Sister Cities:



Rose Tattoo

Rose Tattoo is a hard rock band from Sydney, Australia. The band was formed in 1976. The band is led by singer Angry Anderson. Among their best known songs are "We Can't Be Beaten", "Scarred for Life", "Rock 'n' Roll Outlaw" and "Bad Boy for Love". Their first 4 albums were produced by Harry Vanda and George Young who also worked with AC/DC. 

Other bands have played Rose Tattoo songs including Guns N' Roses ("Nice Boys"), L.A. Guns ("Rock'N'Roll Outlaw"), Nashville Pussy ("Rock'N'Roll Outlaw" and "Nice Boys"), Brass Tacks ("Nice Boys"), Public Toys ("Nice Boys"), Lower Class Brats ("We Can't Be Beaten") and Canadian punk rock band Youth Youth Youth ("We can't be beaten").




Patriots' Day

Patriots' Day (sometimes spelled Patriot's Day or Patriots Day) is a legal holiday in Massachusetts. The holiday remembers the American men and women who fought during the Revolutionary War.

In the past, Patriots' Day was on April 19. This was done in honor of Lexington and Concord. These were the first battles of the American Revolutionary War that were fought on that date in 1775. Since 1969, however, the holiday has been on the third Monday in April.

The Boston Marathon is run on this day every year. The Boston Marathon bombings happened on this day in 2013. The Boston Red Sox have played a home game at Fenway Park on this day every year since 1960.

Woodside, London

Woodside is a neighbourhood in Croydon, in the London Borough of Croydon, England. Woodside Racecourse opened in 1866 on a park called Stroud Green Farm, it has now closed and is now the site of Ashburton Learning Village, closing in 1890. Woodside station opened to serve visitors to the racecourse, but not a lot of people used it when the course closed so it was replaced to make way for a tram line.

Woodside is close to South Norwood and Addiscombe.

Sofia

Sofia is the capital and the largest city of Republic of Bulgaria. Sofia means wiseness in Greek language and in Ancient Greek language. It has 1.3 million people. It is the 15th largest city of the European Union. Sofia is in the west of Bulgaria.

Sofia is one of the oldest capital cities in Europe; the history of Sofia dates back to the 8th century BC. 

Many of the major, biggest universities, cultural centers and institutions, and many businesses of Bulgaria are concentrated in Sofia.

Sofia has Sofia University called Kliment Ohridski, to the name of Kliment, the student of Cyril and Methodius, National Library is located in Sofia, the National Theater, National Palace of Culture of Bulgaria in German-Berlin style having a big garden with waterfalls.

Political institutions are located in Sofia as the Parliament of Bulgaria and the Ministries, together with the Presidency. 

Many big cinemas are located in Sofia, historical and new.

However the previous capital is Veliko Tarnovo, and Sofia became a capital after the Liberation of Bulgaria that is celebrated on 3rd of March. 

At 550 m (1,800 ft) above sea level, Sofia is the third highest capital in Europe (after the Andorran capital Andorra la Vella and the Spanish capital Madrid). It has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Köppen climate classification).


Burette

A burette is a vertical tube-like instrument, used to measure and separate known amounts of liquids in laboratories. Burettes are very precise and one can measure the volume of a fluid with the precision of ±0.05 mL with them.

Francois Antoine Henri Descroizilles developed the first burette on 1791. Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac invented a more complete burette later.

Maghen Abraham Synagogue

The Maghen Abraham Synagogue is the oldest synagogue in Beirut, the capital of Lebanon.

This synagogue was very important to Jewish Lebanese in the early twentieth century. It was built in 1925. It was then named after the son of Abraham Sason. It was used as a place to stay for illegal travelers. Some of the people who traveled without legal papers stayed in the synagogue while going to Palestine. Today, it is now called Israel.
In 1976, a year after the civil war began, Joseph Farhi took the Torah scrolls from the synagogue to Geneva. Most of them were sent to Sephardic synagogues in Israel.

Israel attacked its enemies in Lebanon. This brought anger by other people towards Lebanese Jews. Lebanese Jews became targets to Islamic militant groups since 1984. But even during the fighting, Yasser Arafat's PLO forces and the Christian Phalangists did protect Wadi Abu Jamil during the 1982 Lebanon War. But, the presence of Palestine Liberation Organization forces in the area brought Israeli attacks that damaged the synagogue itself.

The late former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri wanted to rebuild the synagoge, but that never happened. The Talmudic school next to it was broken down. This was to keep view of the beach nearby.



Georg Danzer

Georg Franz Danzer (born October 7, 1946 in Vienna, died June 21, 2007, in Asperhofen) was an Austrian musician. He wrote and sang many songs. Many people think of him as the father of Austropop. This is because he usually sang his songs in the local dialect. He died of lung cancer at age 60.

Bentheuphausia amblyops

Bentheuphausia amblyops is a species of krill. Krill are small shrimp-like crustaceans living in the ocean.

"B. amblyops" is the only species within its genus, which in turn is the only genus within the family Bentheuphausiidae. All the 85 other species of krill known are classified in the family Euphausiidae.

"B. amblyops" can be found in the northern Atlantic Ocean. It occurs in latitudes south of 40° N, and also in the southern seas of the Atlantic, in the Indian Ocean and in the Pacific. It is a bathypelagic krill that lives in deep waters below 1,000 m. It is distinguished from the Euphausiidae by several morphological features. The features most easily used to tell it apart are that the animals are "not" bioluminescent and that their first pair of pleopods is "not" modified as copulatory tool organs. Also, their eyes are smaller than those of the Euphausiidae. Adults reach a length of 4 to 5 cm.


Grosse Ile Township, Michigan

Grosse Ile Township is a town in Wayne County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The township is coterminous with the island in the Detroit River called Grosse Ile. The name comes from French, meaning "Big Island". The population was 10,788 at the 2020 census. It is part of the collection of communities known as Downriver.

Malacostraca

The Malacostraca (Greek: "soft shell") are the largest subgroup of crustaceans. They include decapods (such as crabs, lobsters and shrimp), stomatopods (mantis shrimp) and krill. There are 22,000 members in this group. It represents two thirds of all crustacean species. The first malacostracans appeared in the Cambrian period.

The classification of crustaceans is currently being debated. Some think Malacostraca is a class and others think it is a subclass.

Malacostraca have heads with six segments. They have a pair of antennules and a pair of antennae. They also have mouthparts. There are appendages near the mouthparts, called maxillipeds. They have five pairs of walking legs. The first pair is formed like a pincer. There are eight thoracic segments. There are six abdominal segments. They are used for swimming. Members of Malacostraca have compound stalked or sessile eyes. They have a two-chambered stomach and a centralized nervous system.

Class Malacostraca 

Decapod

Decapoda is an order of crustaceans in the class Malacostraca. Many familiar groups, such as crayfish, crabs, lobsters, prawns and shrimp are in this order. Many decapods are scavengers - they eat dead plants and animals. Crabs are mixed feeders, taking algae and shellfish such as molluscs. Lobsters eat mostly live prey.

As their name suggests, all decapods have ten appendages. 

The last five pairs of appendages on the front half of the body, the "cephalothorax", are used for walking. 

In many decapods, the front pair of appendages carry large pinching claws. The claws are called "chelae", so these appendages may be called "chelipeds".

The front three pairs of appendages on the thorax are used as jaws, and called "maxillipeds".

On the abdomen are swimming appendages called "pleopods", and the body ends in a tail fan.

Classification of the order Decapoda depends on the structure of the gills and legs, and the way in which the larvae develop. There are two suborders: Dendrobranchiata and Pleocyemata. Prawns (including many so-called "shrimp", such as the Atlantic white shrimp) make up the Dendrobranchiata. The other groups, including true shrimp, are the Pleocyemata.

The following classification follows Martin and Davis, with some changes based on more recent structural and molecular studies.x

Order Decapoda (Selection, not everything is listed)








Rafik Hariri

Rafik Baha ad-Din Hariri (; November 1, 1944 – February 14, 2005) was a Lebanese billionaire and businessman. He was Prime Minister of Lebanon from 1992 to 1998, and he became Prime Minister again in 2000. But on October 20, 2004, he quit his job. He helped a lot in rebuilding Beirut, which was damaged from the fighting during the civil war.

Hariri was killed along with 21 other people on February 14, 2005 by a car bomb. A thousand kilograms of TNT exploded in a van near his car. His car was passing through St. George Hotel in the Lebanese capital, Beirut. People are still trying to learn who did it, and the United Nations have helped to investigate. Serge Brammertz is leading this investigation. Many people in Lebanon said that the government of Syria and its allies did it. So far, Brammertz said that DNA evidence collected from the exploded area shows that the killing was done by a young man who blew himself up at the time.

Antenna (biology)

An antenna (plural antennae) is one of a pair of feelers (appendages) connected to the front segments of crustaceans and insects. They are found on the first two segments of the head. The smaller pair are known as antennules. 

Antennae are jointed and extend forward from the head. They are sensory organs. The organ may sense touch, air motion, heat, vibration (sound), and especially smell or gustation (taste).

Sepp Dietrich

Josef "Sepp" Dietrich (May 28, 1892 in Hawangen,Bavaria, Germany- April 21, 1966 in Ludwigsburg,Baden-Württemberg, West Germany) was a German Waffen-SS general, and one of the closest men to Adolf Hitler. For his wartime services, he was one of only 27 men to be awarded the Knight's Cross with Oak leaves, Swords and Diamonds. Dietrich and other members of the Waffen-SS were tried for war crimes after WW2. He died in 1966 21 years after World War 2 ended in 1945 .

Hue

Hue is one of the main properties of a color. 

It is defined as “the degree to which a stimulus is similar to, or different from, stimuli that are red, green, blue, and yellow” (the unique hues). 

The other main aspects of color appearance are colorfulness, chroma, saturation, lightness, and brightness.

Usually, colors with the same hue are distinguished with adjectives referring to their lightness and/or chroma, such as with "light blue", "pastel blue", "vivid blue".

Freeview (New Zealand)

Freeview is free television service in the New Zealand, It is sent to people's home using a digital signal by either over the air or by satellite. It is planning to have more channels than analogue television provides. The service was put on air on 2 May 2007. The service was created as a local copy of the British digital television service, also known as Freeview.

Some TVs can receive Freeview automatically, but most people have to buy a special box to connect to their old TV or replace their satellite box, if they want to get by satellite.

Burqa

A Burqa is a piece of clothing. It is worn by some Muslim women. They can wear it as an outer garment. It only leaves a semi-transparent mesh in front of the woman's eyes, so she can see. The rest of the body is covered by it. 

Other garments for Muslim women that cover less of their body are the hijab and the niqab. People often confuse the hijab and the niqab and call it burqa instead.

The Quran does not say that women need to cover their faces with a veil, or cover their bodies with the full-body burqa.

In France, Italy, Denmark, Austria, Switzerland, Latvia, Bulgaria, Sri Lanka, Morocco, Tunisia, Luxembourg, Belgium and the Netherlands wearing a burqa (and the niqab) in public is illegal. And in more countries, it is illegal to enter a government building, public building, public transport, schools, or to drive a vehicle with a burqa (or a niqab).

Motion Picture Association film rating system

The Motion Picture Association film rating system is a system used by the MPAA. It is meant to help parents and movie-goers decide which movie is suitable for their families and children.

The MPA film ratings are as follows:
In 2013, the MPA ratings were visually redesigned, with the rating displayed on a left panel and the name of the rating shown above it. A larger panel on the right provides a more detailed description of the film's content and an explanation of the rating level is placed on a horizontal bar at the bottom of the rating.

The MPA has made many changes to its movie rating system. When the film ratings were created in 1968, it consists of only four movie ratings. From 1968 to 1970, the four ratings were:

In 1970, the M rating became replaced with "GP" because of the confusion as to whether "M-rated" movies would be appropriate for their children. In addition, the minimum age for R and X-rated movies were raised from 16 to 17. From 1970 to 1972, the movie ratings consisted of four new ratings:

In 1972, the "GP" rating was renamed to "PG" and renamed to "Parental Guidance Suggested". From 1972 to 1984, the ratings were:

In 1984, the "PG-13" rating was created after some parents were unhappy about some movies like Gremlins and Temple of Doom being rated PG and felt the content was given the wrong rating. They asked the MPAA to raise their ratings from PG to R. However, the MPAA felt neither films were strong enough to be given an R-rating so as a response, the MPAA introduced the PG-13 rating warning parents some material may be inappropriate for children under 13. From 1984 to 1990, the ratings were:

In 1990, the X rating had been discontinued and replaced with "NC-17" because some people incorrectly assumed "X" films meant the movie was pornographic. From 1990 to 1994, the ratings were:

In 1995, the minimum age for the NC-17 rating was raised from 17 to 18, and re-worded as "No one 17 and under" to exclude 17 year olds. In the mid-2010s, the NC-17 rating was titled "Adults only".

From 1995 to 2014, the ratings were:

Since 2014, the rating are:

The NC-17 rating is the highest rating (even higher than the R-rating) that a film can be given, and it means the movie is for adults only (ages 18 and older) and no one age 17 or younger will be admitted. This rating, prior to 1990, was previously rated X. As the 1980s was ending, the MPA announced that beginning in 1990, the X-rating will be replaced with NC-17.

The NC-17 rating is very rare because most retailers, newspapers, advertisers, streaming service providers (like HBO), and movie theaters refuse to stock, air, or premiere NC-17 rated content. For this reason, movie directors view the NC-17 rating as a death sentence because almost nobody will watch their film so what most directors do is they go back and edit their movies to which the MPAA told what scenes or content gave them the NC-17 rating so they would either cut the scene entirely or modify it to a lesser-form, and submit the movie for a classification again in which most of the time, they successfully get the R-rating. Some examples of NC-17 rated films include "Henry & June" (1990), "Showgirls" (1995) and "Blonde" (2022). Films are given the NC-17 rating primarily due to their use of sexual activity including nudity, whereas a few of them are given the classification because of their extreme violence that is too cruel to be allowed in an R-rated film.

Prior to 1995, NC-17 stood for "No Children under 17 admitted when 17 was the minimum age for admittance. In 1995, the MPA raised the minimum age from 17 to 18. Beginning with 1995, the rating was retitled for No one 17 and under admitted to exclude 17 year olds.

The main difference between an R and NC-17 rating follows:


The Satanic Verses

The Satanic Verses is a novel by Salman Rushdie.

Part of it was inspired by the life of Muhammad. The title refers to Satanic verses. This is one of the interpretations of the Koran. This interpretation is what Ibn Ishaq did in the oldest surviving text of the work. Some Islamic and most non-Muslim Western historians and commentators on the Qur'an have accepted this story of Muhammad's momentary acceptance of the verses although there are no known sources confirming the presence of these verses in reality in Qur'an in olden times. A common Muslim viewpoint is that the existence of the verses is just a fabrication created by non-Muslims.

The novel caused much controversy when it was published. Many Muslims felt that it contained blasphemous references. Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the Supreme Leader of Iran, a Shi'a Muslim scholar, issued a fatwa that called for the death of Rushdie and claimed that it was the duty of every Muslim to obey. As a result, Hitoshi Igarashi, the Japanese language translator of the book was stabbed to death on 11 July 1991; Ettore Capriolo, the Italian language translator, was seriously injured in a stabbing the same month. William Nygaard, the publisher in Norway, survived an attempted assassination in Oslo in October 1993. On 14 February 2006, the Iranian state news agency reported that the fatwa will remain in place permanently.

In the United Kingdom, however, the book was praised by a lot of critics. It was a 1988 Booker Prize Finalist, eventually losing to Peter Carey's "Oscar and Lucinda".

Satanic verses

Satanic verses is a name given to a number of verses of the Qur'an. These verses became famous because they were introduced into a version of the book. In a later version, they were taken out again. Different groups of people have different views about these verses. According to the first biography of Muhammad, "Sīrat Rasul Allah, Life of the Apostle of God", by Islamic authors Ṭabarī (839-923) and al-Wāqidī (745-822), Muhammad, who struggled to convert the inhabitants of Mecca, was tempted by Satan ("Iblis") while he was reciting the "sūra" al-Najm (considered - like all the Islamic sacred text - a divine revelation transmitted to him through the archangel Gabriel) who suggested a phrase (v. 21) after verses 19 and 20.


National Democrats (Sweden)

National Democrats () is a minor political party in Sweden. It was formed in October 2001. The chairman of the party is Marc Abramsson.


Broad Green

Broad Green is a small area with a lot of houses at the centre of West Croydon in the London Borough of Croydon, England. The area is mostly filled with a triangle-shaped green space which includes stores and large houses. The green was built at the end of the 19th century. Most of West Croydon is in an electoral ward called "Broad Green", hence Broad Green library is some distance from the traditional Broad Green area. Parts of West Thornton and Selhurst wards are also in West Croydon. 

West Croydon

West Croydon might refer to:


Kanji

Kanji (漢字) is one of the three forms of Japanese writing. A kanji is an "ideogram": that is, a type of simple picture. These are made to show a word's meaning. It is a symbol of an idea such as an object, thing or quality.

Kanji ideograms (or “characters”) were taken from Chinese characters, and many changed over time. The word “kanji” means “Han characters” (i.e. “Chinese characters”).

There are two other systems used to write in Japanese. These systems are called hiragana and katakana (together they are called “kana”). They show how a word is pronounced because each character stands for a syllable (a, ka, sa, ta etc.). Each kanji could also be written in kana, indeed they are in children’s books or books for foreigners learning Japanese. 

Japanese can have many homophones for one pronunciation, e.g. "kami" can mean “god”, “hair”, "paper", or "upper stream". Since each words is made of the same syllables, they are written using the same kana (かみ in hiragana and カミ in katakana), but since they all have very different meanings, the kanji character for each word is quite different. The kanji for "god" is 神, the kanji for "hair" is 髪, the kanji for "paper" is 紙, and the kanji for "upper stream" is 上. However, each kanji character can have several different pronunciations, according to which meaning (which “reading”) is intended.

Kanji was originally written to look like what it means, thus the Japanese symbol for mouth is 口 (which is said as "kuchi"), and looks like a mouth. Another word, 山 (said as "yama") means mountain. The Japanese have for many words. Many can be shown with just one kanji, but sometimes two kanji characters are combined to make new words, such as 山口 ("yamaguchi"), "mountain-mouth", meaning a cave. (It is also a surname and the name of a prefecture).

Kanji is often combined with hiragana to show the grammatical meaning of the word. In English this would be done with endings (e.g. “act” (the verb), “action” (the noun) etc.)

Most kanji characters can be pronounced at least two different ways according to whether the word is a native Japanese word (this is called the “kun” reading, or “kun-yomi”), or whether it came from Chinese (this called the “on” reading or “on-yomi”). Kanji that stand alone usually have kun-yomi, while kanji compound words usually have on-yomi. For example, 山 on its own is "yama" (the Japanese word for “mountain”). When it is combined with another word or name, it is pronounced "san" e.g. “Fuji-san” (Mount Fuji). 

However, there are many exceptions to these patterns. For example, some native Japanese words with two or more kanji (usually proper nouns) use their kanji's kun-yomi, like 山口, which is pronounced "yama-guchi", even though the on-yomi for the kanji would be "san" and "kō" in that order. Sometimes, kanji only have on-yomi and have no kun-yomi. For example, the kanji 毒, which means "poison", only has the on-yomi "doku". Sometimes, compound words mix on-yomi and kun-yomi together. For example, the word 金色, which means "golden", is pronounced "kin-iro", in which the first kanji uses its on-yomi, and the second-kanji uses its kun-yomi. Sometimes, the kanji in certain compound words may not even use their kanji readings at all, but are used only to show the word's meaning. For example, the word 煙草 is pronounced "tabako", which means "tobacco" in English. This word was borrowed from Portuguese, and while the pronunciation of the word does not match either kanji, the meaning of the kanji are "smoke" and "grass" in that order, hinting at the word's meaning. There are even some words whose kanji can be used to only show a word's pronunciation and not its meaning. These are called ateji. For example, the word 亜米利加, which means "America", is pronounced "Amerika", but none of the kanji meanings have any obvious connection to America. Usually, however, words of the last kind are usually written in only katakana these days, though sometimes words like "sushi" still written in ateji, like 寿司, because Chinese tourists will recognize the ateji more easily, since the word is written the same way in Chinese.

Kanji characters are classed on the basis of how many brush strokes they are made of. The simplest kanji have one stroke and the most complex may have up to 30 strokes.

There are many different Kanji, the exact number is not known but it is around 50,000. However, not all 50,000 are taught in schools. The government of Japan has set up a 1,945 basic kanji list (Jōyō Kanji ) that those learning the language need to know. They are the ones most commonly used in newspapers and magazines, along with street signs and store signs. Kanji takes many years to learn. By the end of his school years a pupil should know about 1,850 kanji. A university graduate would need to know about 3000. If someone does not know the kanji for a word, they can write it in kana and it will be understood, but it is usually not the proper way to write it, however kana can have many meanings for the same word, so unless the person writes in kanji, we will not know what they are saying. 



Chris Moyles

Chris Moyles (born 22 February 1974 in Leeds) is a British radio and television presenter. He presents a breakfast radio show on BBC Radio 1. His career in radio started at age 14, when he worked on a hospital radio. He worked at lots of different stations until he got a job at BBC Radio 1 in 1997. When he took over the Breakfast show from fellow DJ Sara Cox he quickly brought more listeners to the show. He won awards for his show.

Moyles wrote an autobiography called "The Gospel According to Chris Moyles: The Story of One Man and his Mouth".

Libretto

A libretto is the text (the words) which are set to music to make an opera. A libretto can also be the words for an oratorio, cantata, mass or a musical. The person who writes the libretto is called a librettist. The word “libretto” (plural: “libretti” or “librettos”) is an Italian word which means “little book”.

Sometimes a composer writes his own libretti, but usually a composer likes to have a librettist who can write the words for him so that he can set them to music.

Some libretti are original stories by the librettist, but very often they are based on a book by another writer.

In the 18th century Metastasio was a very famous librettist. Many of his libretti were set several times by different composers. Another 18th century librettist was Lorenzo da Ponte, who wrote the libretti for three of Mozart's greatest operas, as well as for many other composers. In the 19th century Eugène Scribe wrote a very large number of libretti that were set to music by composers such as Meyerbeer, Auber, Bellini, Donizetti, Rossini and Verdi. Two French writers called Henri Meilhac and Ludovic Halévy wrote many opera and operetta libretti for the composers Jacques Offenbach, Jules Massenet and Georges Bizet. Arrigo Boito, who wrote libretti for, among others, Giuseppe Verdi and Amilcare Ponchielli, composed two operas of his own. Hugo von Hoffmansthal wrote libretti for Richard Strauss.

Wagner and Tippett are two composers who wrote their own libretti.

Usually a libretto is written before the music, but sometimes composers wrote some of the music first and then looked for words to go with it. Composers, such as Mikhail Glinka, Alexander Serov, Rimsky-Korsakov, Puccini, and Mascagni all did this sometimes.

Musicals usually have lyrics (the words for the songs), and a separate "book" (the spoken dialogue and the stage directions). Sometimes these two are by different authors, e.g. the musical Fiddler on the Roof has a composer (Jerry Bock), a lyricist (Sheldon Harnick), and the writer of the "book" (Joseph Stein).

Hmong people

The words Hmong and Mong refer to an Asian ethnic group. Their homeland is in China, especially along the Yangtze and Yellow river. In the 18th century, Hmong people started moving to other Southeast Asian countries. Today, they live in all of China, northern Vietnam, Laos, Thailand, and Myanmar. In 1975, communists took over Laos. After they took over, many Hmong people moved to the United States, Australia, France, French Guiana, and Canada. Hmong people divide themselves into the White Hmong, the Green Hmong, and other smaller groups.

Hmong people have been living in southern China for at least 2,000 years.

Some of the origins of the Hmong and Miao clan names are a result of the marriage of Hmong women to Han Chinese men, with distinct Han Chinese-descended clans and lineages practicing Han Chinese burial customs. These clans were called "Han Chinese Hmong" ("Hmong Sua") in Sichuan, and were instructed in military tactics by fugitive Han Chinese rebels. Such Chinese "surname groups" are comparable to the patrilineal Hmong clans and also practice exogamy.

These Miao clans produced by Han Chinese men mating with Miao women introduced Han Confucian influence into Miao people despite culture in Miao society being transmitted maternally.

Han Chinese male soldiers who fought against the Miao rebellions during the Qing and Ming dynasties were known to have married with non-Han women such as the Miao because Han women were less desirable. The Wang clan, founded among the Hmong in Gongxian county of Sichuan's Yibin district, is one such clan and can trace its origins to several such marriages around the time of the Ming dynasty suppression of the Ah rebels. Nicholas Tapp wrote that, according to "The Story of the Ha Kings" in the village, one such Han ancestor was Wang Wu. It is also noted that the Wang typically sided with the Chinese, being what Tapp calls "cooked" as opposed to the "raw" peoples who rebelled against the Chinese.

Hmong women who married Han Chinese men founded a new Xem clan among Northern Thailand's Hmong. Fifty years later in Chiangmai two of their Hmong boy descendants were Catholics. A Hmong woman and Han Chinese man married and founded northern Thailand's Lau2, or Lauj, clan, , with another Han Chinese man of the family name Deng founding another Hmong clan. Some scholars believe this lends further credence to the idea that some or all of the present day Hmong clans were formed in this way.

Jiangxi Han Chinese are claimed by some as the forefathers of the southeast Guizhou Miao, and Miao children were born to the many Miao women married Han Chinese soldiers in Taijiang in Guizhou before the second half of the 19th century.

From 1919 to 1921, the Hmong people were involved a war. The French called this war the War of the Insane.

From 1962 to 1975, the Hmong people were involved in the Laotian Civil War, also known as the Secret War.

China has the largest population of Hmong people with 3 million Hmong people. Vietnam has 787,600 Hmong people, Laos has 320,000 Hmong people, and Thailand has 150,000 Hmong people. Some Hmong people live in Myanmar.

Outside of Asia, the United States has the most Hmong people; it has 186,310 Hmong people. France has 15,000 Hmong people, Australia has 2,000 Hmong people, and French Guiana has 1,500 Hmong people. Canada and Argentina have a total of 600 Hmong people.


Toplessness

Toplessness (or being topless) is a state of a woman not wearing any clothing above the waist, meaning the breasts are visible. The term used for a man is barechestedness or shirtlessness.

Because the female breast is often associated with sexuality, some countries consider it alright for men to be topless in public, but not women. However many countries consider it usual for women to be topless, even due to the natural heat.

Barechested means not wearing a shirt. It usually refers to men. It is very common in many societies. Also very common in sports for a number of reasons. Some reasons include, ease of movement, and cooling. It is also common to go shirtless while working/doing labor. Before computerization of vehicles, it was common for young men to work on cars and trucks without a shirt. 


Westminster Cathedral

Westminster Cathedral in London, England, is a Roman Catholic cathedral. It is the mother church of the Roman Catholic community in England and Wales and the Metropolitan Church and Cathedral for the Archbishop of Westminster.

The cathedral is near Victoria in the City of Westminster. It is the largest Roman Catholic church in England and Wales. It should not be confused with Westminster Abbey.

The cathedral was opened in 1903. It was designed by John Francis Bentley and is in the style of Byzantine church architecture. The nave is the widest of any church in England. The sanctuary is higher than the nave, so that the altar can be seen from any part of the nave. A very large crucifix hangs from the chancel arch. The Archiepiscopal Throne or cathedra, of marble and mosaic, is modelled on the Papal Throne at the Basilica of St. John Lateran in Rome. There are beautiful marble pillars which are all carved differently. In the crypt there are monuments to famous people.

Westminster Cathedral has a famous choir. The first Master of Music (choirmaster) was Sir Richard Runciman Terry. Since 2000, the Master of Music has been Martin Baker. Mass is sung every day.

The choir are famous for singing Gregorian chant and polyphony of the Renaissance. Composers such as Benjamin Britten and Ralph Vaughan Williams have written music for the choir.

All the boys of the Choir are boarders at the nearby Westminster Cathedral Choir School.

The organ is very large. It is in the west gallery (above the entrance). It was built by the organ builder Henry Willis III from 1922 to 1932. One of Louis Vierne's best-known organ pieces, "Carillon de Westminster," was composed for it and dedicated to the builder.

On 28 May 1982, the first day of his six-day visit to the United Kingdom, Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass in the cathedral.

In 1995, Cardinal Basil Hume invited HM The Queen. This was the first visit of a reigning monarch of the United Kingdom to a Catholic liturgy since 1688 when James II & VII was king.


Cachoeira do Sul

Cachoeira do Sul is a Brazilian city of the state of Rio Grande do Sul. Its population is 89,669 and has an area of 3.765 km².

Median

In probability theory and statistics, the median of a data set "formula_1", sometimes written as formula_2, is a number describing the data set. This number has the property that it divides a set of observed values in two equal halves, so that half of the values are below it and half are above.

If there are a finite number of elements, the median is easy to find. The values need to be arranged in a list, from the lowest to highest. If there is an odd number of values, the median is the one at position formula_3. For example, if there are 13 values, they can be arranged into two groups of 6, with the median in between, at position 7. With an even number of values, as there is no single number which divides all of the numbers to two halves, the median is defined as the mean of the two central elements. With 14 observations, this would be the mean of the elements at positions 7 and 8, which is their sum divided by 2.

Alternatively, the median of an even-sized list is sometimes defined as either of the two middle elements; the choice being either (a) always the smallest one, (b) always the largest one, or (c) randomly choose between the two. This alternative definition has two important advantages: it guarantees that the median is always a list element (for example. a list of integers will never have a fractional median), and it guarantees that the median exists for any ordinal-valued data. On the other hand, when one of the choices (a) or (b) is taken, the median of a sample will be biased, which is an unwanted property of a statistical estimator. Definition (c) does not have that disadvantage, but it is more difficult to do. It also has the disadvantage that the same list of values does not have a well-defined, deterministic median.

Median and mean are different in several ways. Mean is a better measure in many cases, because many of the statistical tests can use mean and standard deviation of two observations to compare them, while the same comparison cannot be performed using the medians.

Median is more useful when the variance of the values is not important, and we only need a central measure of the values. If the maximum value of a set of numbers changes while the other numbers of this set are kept the same, the mean of this set of numbers changes, but the median does not.

Another advantage of median is that it can be calculated sooner when we are studying survival data. For example, a researcher can calculate the median survival of patients with a kidney transplant, when half the patients participated in his study die. Calculating the mean survival requires continuing the study, and following all the patients until their death.

Suppose one wants to know how many jelly beans most people in the room have, and that there are five people in the room:


The results change a lot for numbers with larger ranges. Suppose that one has the following group of five people:
In this second case, the mean gives a poor understanding of how many jelly beans most people have (10 or less), while the median gives a better idea of the number of jelly beans most people have. To divide up the number of jelly beans equally, however, one would use the mean. The median is basically the middle number.


Mode (statistics)

In statistics, the mode of a set of data is the one that occurs most. Very often, samples of data are collected. These might be measurements of some kind. In this context, the mode is the value that occurs most often. Unlike the median and the mean, the mode is not necessarily unique. There might be several different values that occur the same number of times. 

S.S.C. Napoli

S.S.C. Napoli ("Società Sportiva Calcio Napoli") is an Italian football club. The club plays in Serie A. Its home stadium is the Stadio Diego Armando Maradona in Naples, Italy. They team plays in light blue shirts, white shorts and light blue socks as uniforms.

The club was formed in 1926 and it was in most of its history in Serie A. It was Diego Armando Maradona who put Napoli on the world soccer map, leading them to scudettos in 1987 and 1990 and the UEFA Cup in 1989. They also won a third scudetto in 2023, the Coppa Italia in 1962, 1976, 1987, 2012, 2014 and 2020, two Supercoppa Italiana in 1990 and 2014, a Cup of the Alps in 1966 and an Anglo-Italian League Cup in 1976.

Napoli dropped to Serie B in 2001. With a debt of about 70 million euros, the club went bankrupt in August 2004. A new club, Napoli Soccer, was born. Napoli Soccer was renamed Società Sportiva Calcio Napoli in early 2006.


These are players who once played for Napoli and players who still do. 


At War with Satan

At War with Satan is the third album by English black metal band Venom. It was released on 16 April 1984.

Antichrist

In Christian beliefs, the Antichrist or Anti-christ ("anti" means opposite; "christ" means messiah) is used to speak about a person or image that implies evil, and more than one person. It is also said that antichrist is the devil himself.

The Biblical Book of Revelation refers to two "Beasts". One of them is often identified as the Antichrist, the counter-messiah of the devil.


Baker

A baker is somebody who makes mainly bread. Some bakers also make cakes and desserts, but a traditional baker only makes bread. The place where a baker works is called a bakehouse or a bakery.

The first bread was made by the Egyptians in 8000 BC and in the Middle Ages most landlords had a bakery. They had a public oven and housewives brought the dough to the baker to cook.

Bread is now much sweeter than it was in the Middle Ages because a lot of corn syrup or honey is used.

Statistical hypothesis test

A statistical hypothesis test is a method used in statistics. It helps you describe the results you get from an experiment. The hypothesis test tells you the likelihood that a specific result would happen by chance. 

Statistical hypothesis tests answer the question: "Assuming that the null hypothesis is true, what is the probability of getting a value which is at least as extreme as the value that was actually observed?". 

So, for example, if the result would only happen by chance 5% of the time, then the experimental hypothesis is supported to the 95% level. 

Luxembourg City

The city of Luxembourg (, , German: "Luxemburg"), also known as Luxembourg City (, , German: "Stadt Luxemburg"), is a commune with city status, and the capital of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.

The city is at the confluence of the Alzette and Pétrusse rivers in southern Luxembourg. In the city is found the Luxembourg Castle, built by the Franks in the Early Middle Ages, around which a settlement developed.

During the Roman period, two main roads crossed the territory of the present city of Luxembourg; these two roads met at the place "Marché-aux-Poissons" (now a street and a neighborhood) dominated by a fortified tower. A castle was built here called "Lucilinburhuc" ("small castle"). In 963, this place became a property of Siegfried I, a close relative of the Emperors of Germany and Kings of France. Siegfried built a castle, not far from the "Lucilinburhuc" castle, on a rocky cliff called the "Bock" (). This place is now considered the birthplace of the city, the country and the nation.

In 1994 UNESCO named the Old Quarters and Fortifications a World Heritage Site.

The city of Luxembourg has an area of , about 2% of the territory of the whole country. The altitude varies between high (Beggen, Bastogne street) and high (Dommeldange); it is high at the centre of the city.

Luxembourg's climate is on the boundary of oceanic ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification) and humid continental ("Dfb") climates.

, there are 115,227 persons living in the "commune", for a population density of inhabitants/km².



Vacuum cleaner

A vacuum cleaner is a device that cleans dust and dirt from floors. Sometimes it is just called a "vacuum." The word "vacuum" comes from the fact that it uses the force of a vacuum to suck dirt into a large chamber from which it can be dumped into the garbage.

In the 1920s, an Ohio janitor named James Murray Spangler created a carpet sweeping contraption out of a soap box, a broom handle, a pillowcase, and an electric motor. He then began to sell his machine to local housewives. The first plastic vacuum cleaner was produced in the 1930s, and the precursor to modern central vac systems was created in 1952 by the Hoover Company, whose name was now synonymous with “vacuuming”. By the 1960s, vacuum cleaners were much more lightweight and easy to use.

There are several types of vacuum cleaners:

TV Tokyo

TV Tokyo is a Japanese television station in Tokyo, Japan. It is also known as "Teleto," a portmanteau of "terebi," the Japanese word for "television," and "Tokyo." Its main owner is Nihon Keizai Shimbun. TV Tokyo is the smallest of the major Tokyo TV networks.

Drawer

A drawer is a piece of furniture for storage. They are usually very short and wide and are part of a chest of drawers, where lots of drawers are stacked. Most have handles or knobs so they can be pulled out.

Chest of drawers

A chest of drawers (also called a dresser) is a piece of furniture. It is made of lots of horizontal drawers. Chests of drawers are usually used for storing clothing, such as underwear and socks.

Puzzle

A puzzle is a problem to make the user think. They are often used for entertainment and can help with logic skills. The user may need to recognise patterns to solve it.

Puzzles, such as wordsearches, crosswords and Sudoku grids are printed in newspapers and magazines, but puzzles can be with objects or even on computers..

On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences

The On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences (OEIS), also known as Sloane's, is a large searchable database. It is on the Web, and it contains number sequences, like the Fibonacci numbers or the powers of two.

It contains over 270,000 sequences. This makes it the largest database of its kind. Each entry contains the leading terms of the sequence, keywords, mathematical motivations, literature links. It also includes the option to generate a graph or play a musical representation of the sequence. The database can be searched by keyword and by subsequence. For instance, it is possible to search for all sequences with both 15 and 118.

Ramanujan prime

In mathematics, a Ramanujan prime is a prime number that satisfies a result proven by Srinivasa Ramanujan. It relates to the prime counting function.

In 1919, Ramanujan published a new proof of Bertrand's postulate (which had already been proven by Pafnuty Chebyshev). 

Ramanujan's result at the end of the paper was:

where formula_2"(x)" is the prime counting function. The prime counting function is the number of primes less than or equal to "x".

The numbers 2, 11, 17, 29, 41 are first few Ramanujan primes. In other words:

Ramanujan primes are the integers "R" that are the smallest to satisfy the condition

Prime counting function

In mathematics, the prime counting function is the function counting the number of prime numbers less than or equal to some real number "x". It is written as formula_1, but it is not related to the number π. Some key values of the function include formula_2, formula_3 and formula_4.

In general, if formula_5stands for the "n"-th prime number, then formula_6.


Bertrand's postulate

Bertrand's postulate states that if "n" > 3 is an integer, then there always exists at least one prime number "p" with "n" < "p" < 2"n" − 2. 

This statement was first made in 1845 by Joseph Bertrand. Bertrand verified his statement for all numbers in the interval [2, 3 × 10].

His statement was completely proven by Pafnuty Chebyshev in 1850. For this reason, the postulate is also called the Bertrand-Chebyshev theorem or Chebyshev's theorem. Srinivasa Ramanujan gave a simpler proof. Ramanujan later used that proof when he discovered Ramanujan primes. In 1932, Paul Erdős published a simpler proof using the Chebyshev function θ("x").


Paul Erdős

Paul Erdős, also Pál Erdős, in English Paul Erdos or Paul Erdös (March 26, 1913 – September 20, 1996), was a famous Hungarian-born mathematician. Throughout his career, he worked on and produced many mathematical conjectures and is known as one of the most productive mathematicians of the 20th century. Erdős worked on and put forward several problems in discrete mathematics, graph theory, number theory, mathematical analysis, approximation theory, set theory, and probability theory. Much of his work was with discrete mathematics, solving many unsolved problems. He challenged and worked on Ramsey theory, a part of mathematics that is about the requirements for order to appear. His work involved solving open problems rather than developing new kinds of mathematics.

Erdős published almost 1,500 articles in his life, the most of any mathematicianHe believed very strongly that mathematics was something you do with other people. He lived a life where he would travel from place to place without a set home, with his only aim of writing mathematical papers with other mathematicians. He was known for his way of doing mathematics with other people, which caused him to work with around 500 people and also his strange way of living. Times magazine called him "The Oddball's Oddball".He spent lots of time for mathematics, even as he got older. He died at a mathematics gathering in Warsaw

Since Erdős worked with so many other mathematicians, the Erdős number was created, which is the number of steps for any mathematicians and Paul Erdős himself in terms of working together on an article. Erdős has a number of 0 (for being himself), and anyone who worked on an article with him was given the number 1. Anyone who worked with someone who worked with Erdős is given a number two, and so on. 

Paul Erdős was born on 26 March 1913, in Budapest, Austria-Hungary He was the only living child of his parents Anna (née Wilhelm) and Lajos Erdős (né Engländer). A few days before he was born his two sisters died because of scarlet fever.


Erdős number

The Erdős number () honors the Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős. Erdős was one of the most prolific mathematical writers. He worked with many mathematicians. 

Paul Erdős's number is 0. Anyone who directly worked with Paul Erdős has an Erdős number of 1. Anyone who works with those collaborators who have an Erdős number of 1, has an Erdős number of 2. The chain continues like that.



John Morrison (wrestler)

John Randall Hennigan (born October 3, 1979) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently working on the independent circuit and also appears on All Elite Wrestling (AEW) as Johnny TV. He is best known for working for World Wrestling Entertainment under the ring names John Morrison and Johnny Nitro.

Hennigan grew up in Los Angeles, California with his two younger sisters, Kelly and Elise. Hennigan once dated wrestler Melina Perez. The characters they play on television started in a relationship. They met while trying to be a part of the television program "Tough Enough III". Hennigan was made a part of the program, Perez was not.


Candice Michelle

Candice Michelle Beckman-Ehrlich (born September 30, 1978 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin) is an American professional wrestler, actress, and model. She is better known as Candice Michelle or just Candice. Beckman is best known for wrestling for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).

Candice Michelle came to WWE as a contestant in the 2004 Diva Search. Although she did not win, WWE hired her anyway. At first, Candice Michelle did not have much to do on the program. Over the next several years, she was trained as a wrestler and started doing more work. She was mainly used in unusual matches. For example, "Bra and panties matches" are matches where the winner is the person removes the other persons clothing leaving them wearing only their bra and panties.

At the "Vengeance" PPV on June 24, she defeated Melina to win the WWE Women's Title for the first time.

Michelle was released from her WWE contract on June 19, 2009.

Candice married Dr. Ken Gee Ehrlich, a West Los Angeles chiropractor on May 7, 2005.

During Candice's career, she has been in many television series, magazine pictorials, fashion shows, and movies. She has been in the movies ""(as a dancer), "Confessions of a Dangerous Mind", "High Crimes", and "Horrorween". In television, she has been on "Party of Five", "The Man Show", "Playboy TV's Totally Busted", "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno", and "Monk". Her most notable appearance was her appearance on "Hotel Erotica". She has also posed nude for several magazines including "Playboy". She is also the spokesperson for the internet company GoDaddy.com.


Star of David

The Star of David (Hebrew:מָגֵן דָּוִד, or Māġēn Dāwīd, pronounced [] in ancient Hebrew, and [] in Modern Hebrew) is a Jewish symbol. It is named after King David of Israel and it is very famous. The star consists of a triangle, overlapped by another, "upside-down" triangle. It is unknown how this came to be a symbol of Judaism, but it was first used in the Middle Ages. It is used on the flag of Israel, and was used by German National Socialists to identify Jews.

Takao

Takao may mean:


Belz Great Synagogue

The Belz Beis HaMedrash HaGadol (in Yiddish: בעלזא בית המדרש הגדול - "The Belz Grand Synagogue) is one of the largest synagogues in Jerusalem. It was built by the Belz Hasidic Jews, with help from their supporters and admirers around the world. In the 1980s, Rabbi Yissachar Dov Rokeach (II) of Belz made plans for the huge synagogue to be built in the Kiryat Belz part of Jerusalem.

Samson (band)

Samson was a British heavy metal band between 1977 and 2002. It was considered a part of the New Wave of British Heavy Metal. Its first album, "Survivors", received good reviews. This made the band more popular. Iron Maiden lead singer Bruce Dickinson was in the band before he joined Iron Maiden. Dickinson went by the name "Bruce Bruce" while he was in Samson. The band kept making music until 2002, when guitarist Paul Samson, who started the band, died of cancer.



Thornton Heath

Thornton Heath is a town in the London Borough of Croydon, south London. There is a new leisure centre in Thornton Heath and there is a train station and a lot of bus routes. There are a lot of shops like Sainsbury's and Tesco.

Stamford Bridge (stadium)

Stamford Bridge is the home of Premier League club Chelsea F.C.. It is located in Fulham in southwest London. 

It was built for Fulham Football Club, who turned it down for money reasons, so Chelsea was created and decided to play at the ground. It currently holds a capacity of 41,631 seats. It is one of the oldest football stadiums in the world, being opened in 1877. It was renovated in 1998


Freeganism

The word "freeganism" (person: freegan; related: freecycling) means to get things for free rather than buy those items. 
A "freegan" is a person who does not like to pay for things, but does not steal either. Freegans like to find things that other people throw away that are still useful. 

People often throw things away that are not used up or broken. Sometimes they throw things away because they are bored of them and like to shop for new things. Freegans look through other people's rubbish bins and take what they can use, to the point of dumpster diving. This can be good for the environment, because no energy is used to make new things, in those cases. However, some cities have rules about taking things out of the rubbish, and freegans can get in trouble for this.
The name "freegan" rhymes with "vegan". It combines the words "free" and "vegan". Freegans are not necessarily vegans.

British Board of Film Classification

The British Board of Film Classification is the organisation responsible for movie and some video game classification in the United Kingdom. The rating system can help parents decide which movies their children should not watch and what video games they should not play. It is based in London. It was formed in 1912 as the British Board of Film Censors; its name was changed in 1985.

There are seven ratings:


Electrology

Electrology is an electrical process to remove human hair so that it does not grow back. An electrologist is sometimes called an electrolysist in the United Kingdom. The process of removing the hair is referred to as electrolysis. The electrolysist slides a thin metal probe into each hair follicle. This, if done the right way, does not hurt the skin. Electricity flows to the follicle through the probe. This causes damage to the areas that grow hair so that it does not grow back.


Film rating systems

Many countries have a film rating system to help parents determine which movies their children can watch. The systems usually use age to rate the movies.

The United Kingdom use the British Board of Film Classification film rating system.

The United States use the Motion Picture Association film rating system.

Australia uses the Australian Classification Board film rating system.

Canada uses the Canadian Home Video Rating System.

Japan uses the Eirin.

New Zealand uses the OFLC (New Zealand) rating system.

Ukraine uses the Ukrainian State Film Agency film rating system.


Eve Ensler

Eve Ensler (born May 25, 1953) is an American playwright and feminist activist. She is best known for the play "The Vagina Monologues".

Ensler was born in New York City to a Christian mother and Jewish father. She graduated from Middlebury College in 1975. She married Richard McDermott in 1978 and divorced in 1988. She is the adoptive mother of actor Dylan McDermott. She adopted him when he was 18 and she was 26.

In 2010, she said that she was being treated for uterine cancer.


Brat

The word Brat has several meanings:


It can be an acronym for:


Roger Pearson

Roger Pearson (born 21 August 1927, in London) is a British writer and publisher. He is also the editor of some journals published by The Institute for the Study of Man.



Colorado Springs, Colorado

Colorado Springs is a city in Colorado, United States. With 478,961 people in 2020, it is the second largest city in Colorado and the 39th largest in the United States. It is also the county seat of El Paso County. It is the headquarters of Focus on the Family, which is a Christian group, and the United States Air Force Academy. Tourist attractions like Pikes Peak, Garden of the Gods the Cheyenne Mountain Zoo, Seven Falls, Manitou Springs, the Broadmoor Hotel and the Air Force Academy are also in the city and its surrounding area.


Janice Raymond

Janice G. Raymond (born January 24, 1943) is an American feminist activist. She is known for her work against violence, sexual exploitation and the "medical abuse" of women. She is also known for her writings and activism against transsexualism. She is retired professor of women's studies and medical ethics at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst. She has published many articles on prostitution and sex trafficking. She lectures around the world on many of these topics through Coalition Against Trafficking in Women.

In 1979 her first book, "The Transsexual Empire", was published. In the book Raymond said that all transsexuals rape women's bodies. The book has been called hate speech against transgender people.

In 1993 her most recent book, "Women as Wombs: Reproductive Technologies and the Battle over Women’s Freedom" was published.

Raymond has received grants from the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. National Institute of Justice, the Ford Foundation, the United States Information Agency, the National Science Foundation, the Norwegian Organization for Research and Development (NORAD), and UNESCO.

Raymond graduated from Salve Regina College in 1965. She got her master's degree in Religious Studies from Andover Newton Theological School in 1971. She graduated from Boston College in 1977.

Janice Raymond is a former member of the Sisters of Mercy. She later left the convent. She is now an open lesbian.


Energy efficiency

Energy efficiency is using less energy to provide the same level of energy service. An example would be insulating a home to use less heating and cooling energy to achieve the same temperature. Another example would be installing fluorescent lights and/or skylights instead of incandescent bulbs to attain the same level of illumination. So efficient energy use is achieved primarily by means of a more efficient technology rather than by changes in individual behaviour.

Energy conservation is using less energy to achieve a lesser energy service, and usually involves a change in behavior. Examples would be heating a room less in winter, or driving less, or working in a less brightly lit room. 

As with other definitions, the boundary between efficient energy use and energy conservation can be fuzzy, but both are important in environmental and economic terms. This is especially the case when actions are directed at the saving of fossil fuels.


Tulsa, Oklahoma

Tulsa is the second largest city in Oklahoma, United States. There are 413,066 people living in Tulsa, as of 2020. It is the 47th largest city in the United States. It is the county seat of Tulsa County, the most densely populated county in Oklahoma.




Anchorage, Alaska

Anchorage is the largest city in Alaska, United States. With a population of 291,247 residents (as of 2020), it makes up nearly two-fifths of the state's population.

Anchorage was originally a construction camp during the building of the Alaska Railroad. By 1920, it had grown to the point where it was decided to officially make it a city. Being at the head of Cook Inlet it became an important place for shipping in Alaska because ships could load and unload cargo to and from the new railroad. 
In the 1940, an both the army and the air force built bases near Anchorage, and it got even bigger. In 1964, Anchorage was hit by the Good Friday Earthquake, the second strongest earthquake ever recorded. Over a hundred people died and a lot of buildings in and around Anchorage were destroyed. 

Over the next few years, a lot of work went into rebuilding the city and making the buildings better in case there was another earthquake. In 1968, oil was discovered up in the Arctic region of Alaska, and Anchorage again got bigger quickly and merged with other towns in the area. Today it is a modern city with a very large international airport, a large sea port that is very busy, and all the other things you would expect to find in a big city.

Water for the city comes from Eklutna Lake. 

The city's electricity comes from power plants in the city and from a dam also fed by Eklutna Lake.

Heat for homes comes from natural gas provided by Enstar Natural Gas Company.

Anchorage has a subarctic climate ("Dfc" in the Köppen climate classification).

Boundary Peak

Boundary Peak is a mountain, (or "peak"), in the southwestern U.S. State of Nevada. The county is Esmeralda. It is the highest point in Nevada. It is less than two miles from the Cal/Nev state line, which is why it is called "Boundary Peak". Boundary Peak is tall, and the closest town is Dyer, a famous ghost town.


Skopje

Skopje (Macedonian: Скопје; transcribed "Skopje") is the capital and the largest city of North Macedonia. The city is the administrative, cultural, economic and academic centre of the country. In the past, the city has been known by various names such as: "Üsküp" (Turkish) or "Skoplje" (Serbo-Croatian). The city has been build upon the ancient city of Scupi. In 2002, the city had population of 506,926 citizens.

Skopje is in the north of North Macedonia. Through the city flows the river Vardar, the biggest river in North Macedonia. Skopje is located on 255 metres above the sea level and it coves 1, 854 km² or 715.8 sq mi. Northern of the city is the mountain Skopska Crna Gora and on the south is the mountain Vodno.

The city of Skopje is administratively divided into 10 municipalities, of which one is the whole city named Greater Skopje. The city is part of the Skopje statistical region in North Macedonia.

1 . Centar 
2 . Gazi Baba
3 . Aerodrom
4 . Čair
5 . Kisela Voda
6 . Butel
7 . Šuto Orizari
8 . Karpoš
9 . Gjorče Petrov
10 . Saraj

Skopje is twinned with:


Norwegian Dawn

The Norwegian Dawn is a cruise ship that began sailing in 2002 and is currently in operation with Norwegian Cruise Line.

The "Norwegian Dawn" was ordered from shipbuilders Meyer-Werft, Papenburg, Germany. It was delivered in 2001 to Star Cruises. But, it was decided by Star Cruises that "SuperStar Libra" and "SuperStar Scorpio" would start being used as part of the fleet operated by subsidiary company Norwegian Cruise Line. These vessels would become "Norwegian Star" and "Norwegian Dawn". In 2002, "Norwegian Dawn" was delivered to NCL. It is the second SuperStar.

The "Norwegian Dawn" sails from New York City to Port Canaveral, Florida; Miami, Florida; Nassau, Bahamas; and Great Stirrup Cay. 



Lea Fastow

Lea Weingarten Fastow (born December 1961) is the wife of former Enron executive and felon Andrew Fastow, and is the second former Enron executive to go to prison after Enron collapsed due to fraud in December 2001.

Fastow was born in Houston, Texas, born to a Jewish family. Her family had grocery store chain and Weingarten Realty Investors WRI. She graduated from Tufts University, where she met her husband. She earned an MBA at Northwestern University. She was married in 1984. Together Andrew and Lea have two children.

Lawrence Higby

Lawrence M. Higby is an American businessman and political activist. Higby is the former assistant of the White House Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman during the Nixon Administration. He later went on to become CEO of home medical equipment company Apria. Up until 2005, Higby led a group of rich Republicans called the New Majority PAC.

Endorsement test

The endorsement test was proposed by Sandra Day O'Connor, a member of the United States Supreme Court. She suggested it in her judgment in a lawsuit called Lynch v. Donnelly in 1984.

The endorsement test is a question that you can ask if you think that the government is doing something in favor of religion. According to the United States Constitution, the government cannot endorse any particular religion, and cannot endorse religion in general. The test asks: is the government doing something that makes people "think "that the government endorses religion? If so, that government act may not be allowed under the Constitution.

Terry Rakolta

Terry Rakolta (born September 18, 1943) is an American anti-obscenity activist. She is married to John Rakolta, the former CEO of Walbridge. She led an unsuccessful boycott against the Fox Broadcasting Company sitcom "Married... with Children" Rakolta lives in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan in 1989.
She later founded Americans for Responsible Television to fight against other shows deemed offensive by the organization, including shows by Phil Donahue and Howard Stern.

Snake River

The Snake River is a river in the U.S. states of Wyoming, Idaho, Washington and Oregon. It is a tributary of the Columbia River. The river rises in western Wyoming, and flows through the Snake River Plain in Idaho. It turns north, forming the border with Oregon and Idaho, and the border with Washington and Idaho. At Lewiston it turns west and flows through Washington to the Columbia River.

The Shoshone and Nez Perce Indians lived on the Snake River. The Lewis and Clark Expedition was the first American expedition to sight the Snake River. The river later was part of the Oregon Trail. Many pioneers traveled down the river to settle in the fertile Willamette Valley in Oregon. 

There are fifteen dams on the Snake River. Some are for hydropower, some for irrigation, and some for navigation.

Mount Hood

Mount Hood is a dormant volcano, called Wy'east by the Multnomah tribe. It is in the U.S. state of Oregon, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) southeast of Portland. It is described as a "potentially active" stratovolcano.

The volcano is high. It is the highest point in Oregon. There are several ski resorts on Mount Hood. There are 12 glaciers.

Each year, runners race on foot between Mount Hood and the Pacific Ocean in the "Hood to Coast Relay."

Crater Lake

Crater Lake is a caldera lake in the U.S. state of Oregon. It is the main attraction of Crater Lake National Park. It is famous for its blue color and clear water. The lake partly fills a nearly deep caldera. The volcanic crater was formed by the collapse of the volcano, Mount Mazama, about 7,500 years ago. There are no rivers flowing into or out of the lake. The evaporation is compensated for by rain and snowfall at a rate such that the total amount of water is replaced every 250 years.

In 1853, miner John Wesley Hillman made the first recorded visit to the lake. He named the lake "Deep Blue Lake". The lake was renamed at least three times, as Blue Lake, Lake Majesty, and finally Crater Lake.

Crater Lake is known for its famous piece of driftwood, named the "Old Man of the Lake". It is a tree that has been moving up and down in the water for more than 100 years. The lake water is cold, so the tree is well preserved. Originally, fish did not live in the lake. However, people stocked the lake with different kinds of fish between 1888 and 1941. Several species of fish still live in the lake.

Crater Lake is in Klamath County. The lake is about northwest of the county seat of Klamath Falls, and about northeast of Medford. The lake has an average depth of . Its maximum depth is . The depth changes slightly as the weather changes. On the basis of maximum depth, Crater Lake is the deepest lake in the United States. It is the second deepest in North America, after Great Slave Lake in Canada. Crater Lake is also the ninth deepest lake in the world.

However, on the basis of comparing average depths among the world's deepest lakes, Crater Lake is the third deepest in the world. The caldera rim of Crater Lake ranges in elevation from .

Mount Mazama is part of the Cascade Range island arc. It was built up over a period of at least 400,000 years. The caldera was created in a massive volcanic eruption. That led to the lowering of Mount Mazama around 5700 BC. Since that time, all eruptions on Mazama are limited to the caldera. Lava eruptions later created a central platform, called Wizard Island. Sediments and material from landslides also covered the caldera floor.

Eventually, the caldera cooled. That allowed rain and snow to form a lake. Fumaroles and hot springs remained common and active during this period. Also after some time, the slopes of the lake's caldera rim more or less stabilized. Streams restored a radial drainage pattern on the mountain, and forests began to cover the landscape. It is estimated that it took about 720 years to fill the lake to its present depth of 594 m. Much of this happened during a period when the climate was drier than it is now. Some hydrothermal activity remains along the lake floor. That means that at some time in the future Mazama may erupt once again.

The waters of Crater Lake are some of the purest in North America. The water shows almost no pollution. There are several reasons, but the most significant is that the lake has no rivers or tributaries coming into it.

Clarity readings have always been in the high-20 meter to mid-30 meter (80–115 ft) range. That is very clear for any natural body of water. In 1997, scientists recorded a record clarity of 43.3 meters (142 ft).

The lake has relatively high levels of dissolved salts. The average pH has generally ranged between 7 and 8.

The Klamath tribe of Native Americans have long thought of the lake as a sacred site. Their legends tell of a battle between the sky god Skell and Llao, the god of the underworld. Mount Mazama was destroyed in the battle. That resulted in the creation of Crater Lake. The Klamath people used Crater Lake in vision quests. The Klamath believed those who were successful in such quests had more spiritual powers. The tribe still holds Crater Lake in high regard as a spiritual site.

Crater Lake National Park



Driftwood

Driftwood is wood that has been washed onto the shore of a sea, river, or lake by winds, tides, waves or man.

In some waterfront areas, driftwood is a major nuisance. However, the driftwood provides shelter and food for birds, fish and other aquatic species as it floats in the ocean. Gribbles, shipworms and bacteria decompose the wood and gradually turn it into nutrients that are reintroduced to the food web. Sometimes, the partially decomposed wood washes ashore, where it also shelters birds, plants, and other species. Driftwood can become the foundation for sand dunes.

Driftwood can be:

According to Norse mythology, the first humans, Ask and Embla, were formed out of two pieces of driftwood, an ash and an elm, by the god Odin and his brothers, Ve and Vili. 

Driftwood carried by Arctic rivers was the main, or sometimes only, source of wood for some Inuit and other Arctic populations living north of the tree-line until they came into regular contact with European traders. 
Many people use driftwood as parts of decorative furniture or other art forms, and it is a popular element in the scenery of fish tanks.

List of United States cities by population

The following is a list of incorporated places with the most people living in them in the United States. The United States Census Bureau says an "incorporated place" can have many names, such as city, town, village, borough, and municipality. A few special census-designated places (CDPs) are also in the Census Bureau's list of incorporated places. Consolidated city-counties are a type of place that includes all of a county, or something like it with a different name. Some consolidated city-counties, however, include more than one incorporated place. This list presents only that part (or "balance") of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place.

The table below lists the 333 incorporated places in the United States with more than 100,000 people living in them on July 1, 2022, as estimated by the United States Census Bureau. A city is displayed in bold if it is a state or federal capital city, and in "italics" if it is the city with the most people of the state. Five states—Delaware, Maine, Vermont, West Virginia and Wyoming—do not have cities with more than 100,000 people living in them.
The table below shows the following things:

The table below lists the five municipalities ("municipios") of Puerto Rico with more than 100,000 people living in them on July 1, 2022, as estimated by the United States Census Bureau.

The table below contains the following information:


The table below lists U.S. cities that, in past censuses, have had more than 100,000 people living in them, but do not anymore.

The following table lists U.S. cities that, in past censuses, have had populations of at least 100,000 but have since decreased beneath this threshold or have been consolidated with or annexed into a neighboring city.

The table below contains the following information:


What Not to Wear

What Not to Wear is a makeover reality show that is aired on the BBC. The reality show is now presented by Mica Paris and Lisa Butcher, but before them, it was presented by the fashion experts Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine.

On every episode of the show, there is a makeover of a man or woman who is very unfashionable. The person who is having the makeover is given £2000/$5000 to go shopping and buy new fashionable clothes with the two hosts who give them advice. The makeover helps the person to have a better appearance and be more fashionable.

Public figure

A public figure is a legal term applied in the context of defamation actions (libel and slander), as well as invasion of privacy. A public figure (such as a politician, musician, celebrity, or business leader) cannot base a lawsuit on incorrect harmful statements unless there is proof that the writer or publisher acted with malice (knowledge or reckless disregard for the truth). The burden of proof is higher in the case of a public figure.

Elm

Elms are deciduous and semi-deciduous trees, found throughout the Northern Hemisphere from Siberia to Indonesia, Mexico to Japan. They have alternate, simple, single- or doubly-serrate leaves, usually asymmetric at the base and sharply pointed at the tip.

Elms are hermaphroditic, having perfect flowers, and which, being wind-pollinated, are without petals. The fruit is a round samara.

Elms take many decades to grow to maturity.



ELM

Elm could mean:


To people:

Governor of Massachusetts

Just like the other 49 American states, Massachusetts has its own governor. The current governor is Maura Healey. He is a member of the Democratic Party. The first governor of Massachusetts was John Hancock.

This is a complete list of governors of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

Acting governors, denoted as "A" instead of numbered, are included when the Governor resigned or died. Acting governors show a vacancy in the lieutenant governorship. They remain as Lieutenant Governors and merely "act" as governor. Lieutenant governors in Massachusetts do not ascend to the governorship upon death or resignation of their predecessor.

Produce

Produce means fruits and vegetables. At a grocery store, the area selling fruits and vegetables is usually called the produce section. Also, people use a produce scale to weigh their fruits and vegetables.

Highway

A highway, also spelled "hi-way", is a road made for travel by the public between important places, such as cities, towns and landmarks. The word "highway" can be different between countries and also mean a road, freeway, superhighway, autoroute, autobahn, parkway, expressway, autostrasse, autostrada, byway or motorway.

Highways come in many different designs. They can include many lanes of traffic, a median (strip of lane or barrier) between lanes of opposing traffic, and access control (ramps and bridges). Highways can also be as simple as a two-lane road.

In many countries, these roads are numbered to easily tell them apart. These numbered highways are usually called routes. The United States includes a system called the Interstate Highway system, controlled by AASHTO, where major north/south routes are odd numbered and east/west are even numbered. In Canada, routes that are in the 400s are freeways. In China, types of routes are separated by the first letter of the route; "G" for national road, "S" for provincial road and "Y" for rural roads.

Highways are sometimes criticised because of the pollution cars make when driving highways. When too many cars travel along a highway, traffic slows down; this is known as a traffic jam. Public transportation (such as buses) and special lanes for those who have a given number of people in a car are used to help stop these problems.

Beverly Cleary

Beverly Atlee Cleary (née Bunn; April 12, 1916March 25, 2021) was an American children's writer. She was the author of over 80 books for young adults and children. Her characters are normal children facing challenges of growing up, and her stories are filled with humour. Some of her best known and loved characters are Ramona Quimby and her sister Beatrice ("Beezus"), Henry Huggins, Ralph S. Mouse, and Ribsy.

Beverly Cleary was born Beverly Atlee Bunn in McMinnville, Oregon. When she was 6, her family moved to Portland, Oregon, where she went to grammar and high school. She was slow in learning to read, partly because she did not like the books the school wanted her to read, and partly due to an unkind first grade teacher. It was not until she was in third grade that she found enjoyment from books, when she started reading "The Dutch Twins" by Lucy Fitch Perkins. From then on, she visited the library often, though she rarely found the books she most wanted to read — those about children like herself.

In 1934, she moved to Ontario, California to attend Chaffey College, from which she earned an Associate of Arts diploma. She then moved to Berkeley to major in English at the University of California. After graduating with a B.A in English in 1938, she studied at the School of Librarianship at the University of Washington in Seattle, where she earned a degree in librarianship in 1939. Her first job was as a librarian in Yakima, Washington, where she met many children who were looking for the same books that she had always hoped to find as a child herself. In response, she wrote her first book which was published in 1950. "Beezus and Ramona", Cleary's first novel to feature the Quimby sisters as the central focus of the story, was published in 1955, although Beezus and Ramona made frequent appearances in the Henry Huggins series as supporting characters.

In 1940 she married Clarence T. Cleary and they moved to Oakland, California. The Clearys became parents to a set of twins, Marianne Elisabeth and Malcolm James, in 1955. Clarence Cleary died in 2004. 

She also wrote two autobiographies, "A Girl from Yamhill" and "My Own Two Feet".

Cleary celebrated her 100th birthday on April 12, 2016. On March 25, 2021, Cleary died in Carmel-by-the-Sea, California, 18 days before her 105th birthday.

Her books are available in 14 languages in over 20 countries. She has won many awards, including the 1984 Newbery Medal for her book "Dear Mr. Henshaw" and the Laura Ingalls Wilder Award in 1975. Cleary received the Library of Congress "Living Legends" award in the "Writers and Artists" category in April 2000 for her major contributions to America's cultural heritage.

The Hollywood location of the Multnomah County library, near where she lived as a child, has created a map on their lobby wall of Henry Huggins' Klickitat Street neighborhood. Statues of her beloved characters Ramona, Henry Huggins, and the Huggins' dog Ribsy can be found in Grant Park in Portland, Oregon.

In 2004, the University of Washington's Information School completed fundraising for a Beverly Cleary Endowed Chair for Children and Youth Services to remember her work and commitment to librarianship.

She has a dorm at University of California, Berkeley named after her.



London, Ontario

London, Ontario is a large city exactly halfway between Detroit, Michigan and Toronto, Ontario. It is also the home of the University of Western Ontario. With a population of 457,720 it is the seat of Middlesex County. It is an hour and a half drive from Sarnia, Ontario and an hour drive from Forest, Ontario.

CFPL 980

CJBK 1290


Amy Winehouse

Amy Jade Winehouse (14 September 1983 – 23 July 2011) was an English jazz, soul and R&B singer and songwriter. She debuted with the well-received album "Frank" in 2003. Winehouse won five Grammy Awards for her 2006 album "Back to Black". This made her the first British female to win five Grammys.
Winehouse had many uncles who were jazz musicians, and she was interested in jazz from a young age. She named her first album after Frank Sinatra. Her music was also influenced by girl groups of the 1960s.

Amy Jade Winehouse was born to Jewish parents Janis and Mitch Winehouse. She was given her first guitar when she was 13 years old. When she was 14 she started writing songs. She'd often write music about her day to day experiences in a book given to her by father. It was later revealed that she used some of the songs she wrote as a teenager on her debut album Frank She went to Sylvia Young Theatre School and the BRIT School. Both schools have very notable alumni including soul-singer Adele and X-Factor contestant, Leona Lewis

On 20 October 2003 Winehouse's first album "Frank" was released. She won an Ivor Novello Award for it.

On 30 October 2006 her second album "Back to Black" was released. Five singles were released from the album. The first single "Rehab" spent 57 weeks in the UK Singles Chart. It won Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 2008 Grammy Awards.
Winehouse sung on Mutya Buena's 2007 single "B Boy Baby". Winehouse performed at Nelson Mandela's 90th Birthday Party concert at London's Hyde Park on 27 June 2008. The next day she performed at the Glastonbury Festival.

In 2011 "Lioness: Hidden Treasures", a collection of Winehouse's unreleased songs, was released. It reached No.1 in the UK Albums Chart. Winehouse sung on the song "Cherry Wine" on Nas' 2012 album "Life Is Good".

She married Blake Fielder-Civil in 2007. They had legal troubles that resulted in criminal convictions for both of them. He was sent to prison. They divorced in 2009.

She was found dead her flat in Camden, north London, on the afternoon by accidental alcohol poisoning on July 23, 2011 after years of drug and alcohol addiction. This made her a member of the 27 Club, a group of popular musicians who have died at that age, often due to drug or alcohol abuse. After Winehouse's death her dad published a book about her life called "Amy: My Daughter". All of the money made from the book was given to the Amy Winehouse Foundation.


Canuck

"Canuck" is a slang term for Canadian people.

The term was first used in the 19th century, although its etymology (origin) is not clear. Some possibilities are:

The Random House Dictionary says that: "The term Canuck is first recorded about 1835 as an Americanism, originally referring specifically to a French Canadian. This was probably the original meaning, though in Canada and other countries, Canuck now more often refers to any Canadian." 

When "Canuck" is used by Canadians, the meaning is usually affectionate, friendly or patriotic.

The history and use of the term include:

The use of "Canuck" is similar to the use of some other potentially offensive nicknames. When it is used by the people it names – Canadians in this case – it is usually acceptable. But when it is used by an outsider it can be thought of as insulting one's heritage.




Charles Kirk Clarke

Charles Kirk Clarke (c. 1857 - January 20 1924) was a psychiatrist who had a major role in Canadian politics. He was born in Elora, Ontario, to a former parliamentarian. He went to college at the University of Toronto in 1879. He later went on to found the Canadian National Committee for Mental Hygiene. Clarke first practised psychiatry at the 999 Queen Street institution in Toronto. In 1880 and then took a post at the Hamilton asylum.

Clarke was a student and brother-in-law of Joseph Workman, the superintendent of the Toronto Asylum. By 1905, Clarke had abandoned the movement, and many of the other leading psychiatrists would follow suit by the end of World War I since it was clear that eugenic measures did not have the desired effects.

The Internationale

"The Internationale" (, ; 
, , , ) is a very well known communist, socialist, and social democratic/socialist song. While it was originally written in French, it was translated into many other languages, including English. The most famous versions, however, are those in Russian and Chinese.

The French words, written by Eugene Pottier, were originally supposed to be sung to the tune of "La Marseillaise", but a separate tune was created for it by a Belgian named Pierre Degeyter.

The Russian version, written by Arkady Yakolevich Kots () in 1902, was adopted as the national anthem of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (Russian SFSR) in 1918 and as that of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (the Soviet Union) in 1922. It stayed like this until 1944, when it was replaced by the State Anthem of the Soviet Union written by Alexander Alexandrov.

The Chinese lyrics were written by Qu Qiubai ().

The song is known by its tune, and its chorus, which in French begins with "" (meaning "It's the final battle").

The song has been translated into over 100 languages, making it one of the most translated songs of all time. The song and its translations have been adopted and sung by communists all around the world. In communist countries, it is often sung not just in political party meetings, but also in official gatherings, schools, protests and many other situations.


Hartley, Kent

Hartley is a village in Kent, England. It is 6 miles south of Gravesend and Dartford. The old church is called All Saints.

Hartley has many new buildings and some old houses, it now joins Longfield, the place in the north. In 2001 there were 5,395 persons living here. There are also woods and a farm near the houses. Most of the 2,145 houses in Hartley are owned by the persons who live in them.

The name Hartley means "place in the wood where the deer are". It was a very small place, but now is like a town. No great events happened here, and not many famous persons lived in Hartley.

In the Cretaceous time, much of England was under the sea. In the deep waters, the chalk of the North Downs of Kent was made. Then the sea made the clay which is over the chalk. Then the Ice Age froze the chalk and there were rivers which made the "dry valley" at Hartley Bottom.

In the year 1086, 15 families and 3 slaves lived in Hartley. Before the Black Death (1348) about 150 persons lived here. 53 persons made tax payments in 1377, which means about 85 lived here then. In 1392 a paper tells us that there was a chief house, where a manager lived. He farmed land for the owner. This land was called Hartley Court. Other persons who owned land in Hartley, had to go to the court of the owner and do some other work for him. 
There was a fight at Hartley Wood in 1554, between supporters and opponents of Queen Mary I of England. Her supporters won. Hartley in 1650 was like the place in 1850, because almost all the buildings were there then. In 1770 the writer Edward Hasted said not many persons go to Hartley.

Some buildings were made in the 1700s (like Hartley House and Yew Cottage). In 1841 there were 224 persons living in Hartley. Almost all worked on the farms. There was also a wheel maker, metal worker and drink sellers.

The growth of Hartley started after the railway came to Longfield in 1876, and water by pipe came in 1902. Next two companies – Payne, Trapps and Co Ltd, and Small Owners Limited sold land for houses and small farms. After 1945 there were many new houses and roads.


Stephanie McMahon

Stephanie Marie McMahon (born 24 September 1976), professionally called Stephanie McMahon is an American businesswoman and former professional wrestler who serves as the vice president of "Talent and Creative Writing" for WWE. She is also the daughter of Vince McMahon.

She was the former CEO of WWE before the return of his father. In 2023, Stephanie was listed "Top 10 richest WWE wrestlers" by Times of India.

Stephanie was born in Hartford, Connecticut to Vince McMahon and Linda McMahon with Shane McMahon as brother. She grew up in the United States and has served as the WWE chief brand officer since December 2013.

In 2003, She married Triple H.
In 2020, Women in Toys, Licensing & Entertainment announced Stephanie for the "'WIT Changemaker Award" alongside Pam Lifford, president of Warner Bros. Global Brands and Experiences for the WIT’s Mentor of the Year at the 16th Annual Wonder Woman Awards. She was named "Variety's 2022 Women's Impact Honorees."

 

Cienfuegos

Cienfuegos is the capital city of the Cienfuegos province, Cuba. It has a population of about 150,000.

Hartley

Hartley could mean





Gribble

A gribble is any species of marine isopod from the family Limnoriidae. They are mostly pale white and small (1-4  mm long) crustaceans. 

The term gribble was originally used for the wood-boring species, especially the first species described from Norway by Rathke in 1799, "Limnoria lignorum". The Limnoriidae have species which bore into seaweed and sea grass, as well as wood borers. 

There are three genera, "Paralimnoria", "Limnoria" and "Lynseia". "Limnoria" has species in most seas. Those gribbles able to bore into living marine plants are thought to have evolved from a wood (dead plant) boring species. 

Gribbles bore into wood and plant material for food. The cellulose of wood is digested. The most destructive species are "Limnoria lignorum", "L. tripunctata" and "L. quadripunctata". According to an expert, they are the only animals able to make a cellulase to dissolve plant cell walls. Other animals that eat plant fibres make use of bacteria in their gut to produce the enzyme. Gribbles do not. This has led some biologists to think of biofuels.


Veronica

Veronica is a Latin name for females.









Tuatara

Tuatara ("Sphenodon punctatus") are a species of reptiles which look like lizards. However, they are the only surviving member of an order of reptiles which flourished 200 million years ago.

There is now only the genus Sphenodon, with two species of Tuatara. Both are endemic to (only live in) New Zealand. Lizards and snakes are the closest living relatives of the tuatara.

Tuatara are green-brown, and measure up to 80 cm from head to the end of their tail. They have a spiny crest along the back: the Maori word "tuatara" refers to this.
The crest is more pronounced in males. Tuatara are special in many ways. One of these is the pattern of their teeth. They have two rows of teeth in the upper jaw overlap one row on the lower jaw. This is unique among living species.

Tuatara are also unusual because they have a third 'eye'. They have two normal eyes. The third eye is on top of their head, in between their other eyes. It does not see like a normal eye. The parietal eye, as it is called, is only visible in hatchlings. They have a translucent patch at the top centre of the skull. After four to six months this becomes covered with opaque scales and pigment.

The function of the parietal eye is unknown, but it may be useful in absorbing ultraviolet rays to manufacture vitamin D. It may also do other things. Of all living tetrapods, the parietal eye is most obvious in this animal. The parietal eye is part of the pineal system. The animal's pineal gland secretes melatonin at night. Some salamanders use their pineal body to perceive polarised light, which helps navigation. Unlike lizards they have no eardrums or external male sexual organ.

Tuataras do not have ears, but they can hear. They have a number of unique features in their skeleton (bones), some of them shared through common descent with fish.

The tuatara has been classified as an endangered species since 1895. The second species, "S. guntheri", was not discovered until 1989.

Tuatara, like many of New Zealand's native animals, are threatened by habitat loss and the introduced Polynesian Rat "Rattus exulans". They were extinct on the mainland, with the remaining populations confined to 32 offshore islands, until the first mainland release into the heavily fenced and monitored Karori Wildlife Sanctuary in 2005.

Dinosaur Jr

Dinosaur Jr is an American rock band. The band was formed in 1984 in Massachusetts. The band stopped playing in 1997 but came back together in 2007. The people in the band right now are J Mascis, Lou Barlow and Murph. The band has recorded many albums over the years that were very important to rock music. Some of these albums are "You're Living All Over Me", "Green Mind" and "Beyond".

The band is famous for J Mascis' good guitar sounds and his powerful guitar solos.



Band Aid (band)

Band Aid was a British and Irish charity music supergroup. It was started in 1984 by Bob Geldof and Midge Ure. The purpose was to raise money for famine relief in Ethiopia by making the record "Do They Know It's Christmas?" The single was very successful. It was Number One on the music charts during Christmas. Two re-recordings of the song were done. They raised more money and also finished Number One on the charts.

Band Aid II re-recorded the song in 1989, and Band Aid 20 did the same in 2004.


Hüsker Dü

Hüsker Dü was an American hardcore punk and later alternative rock band from the 1980s. The band formed in 1979 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The people in the band were Bob Mould who sang and played electric guitar, Greg Norton (later replaced by Enrique Peña Nieto) who played bass guitar and Grant Hart who sang and played drums. The band stopped playing together in 1987.

The band's sound changed very much over the years they were together, but it was always very loud and powerful. The band began as a hardcore band. They played extremely loud and very fast and often screamed their vocals instead of singing. As time went on, the songs began to get slower and more melodic. By the time the band had stopped playing together, their music was no longer punk rock and had changed to alternative rock.

Hüsker Dü always had more than one singer. This is because the band decided early in their time together that whoever wrote the lyrics of a song would sing that song. This meant that many of the songs were be very different from each other, but it also caused fights within the band. In 1987, the band stopped playing together because of these fights.

Deir el Qamar Synagogue

The Deir el Qamar Synagogue is a synagogue in Deir el Qamar, Lebanon; it is the oldest synagogue in Mount Lebanon. The synagogue was built in the seventeenth century to serve the local Jewish Lebanese population. Some of them were under the rule of Emir Fakhreddine II. 



Interstate 75

Interstate 75 (often shortened to 75) is an Interstate Highway in the midwest and southeastern United States that runs north and south. It travels from State Road 826 (Palmetto Expressway) and State Road 924 (Gratigny Parkway) in Hialeah, Florida (just west of Miami) to Sault St. Marie, Michigan, at the Ontario, Canada, border. The route is long.


Kumho Tire Co. v. Carmichael

Kumho Tire Co. v. Carmichael is a 1999 United States Supreme Court case. It applied the "Daubert" standard to expert testimony from non-scientists.

Patrick Carmichael was driving his minivan on July 6, 1993, when the right rear tire blew out. One of the passengers in the vehicle died, and others were severely injured. Three months later, the Carmichaels sued the manufacturer of the tire, claiming that the tire was defective and the defect caused the accident. The Carmichaels' case rested largely on testimony from a tire failure expert.

The tire failure expert relied on features of tire technology that the manufacturer did not dispute, as well as background facts about the particular tire on the Carmichaels' van. The expert's conclusion that a defect in the tire caused the accident rested on certain observations about the tire that Kumho Tire vigorously disputed. Kumho also disagreed with certain aspects of the tire expert's methodology, and asked the federal district court hearing the case to exclude it under Rule 702 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.

The district court took its cue from Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, which had given power for trial judges in admitting expert testimony. Under Daubert, certain factors contribute to the reliability, and hence the admissibility, of expert testimony, one of which is the general validity of the expert's methods. The district court found the tire expert's methods not to be scientifically valid, and hence excluded his testimony. This meant that Kumho Tire would prevail. The Carmichaels appealed to the Eleventh Circuit.

The Eleventh Circuit reversed the district court's ruling in favor of Kumho Tire. It reasoned that Daubert was expressly limited only to scientific expert testimony and did not apply to "skill- or experience-based observation." The tire expert's testimony rested on observation and experience, and so the Eleventh Circuit reasoned the district court should have made a different ruling based on Rule 702 without the Daubert gloss. Kumho Tire asked the Supreme Court to review whether Daubert applied solely to scientific evidence.

Deodorant

Deodorant is anything that takes away an odor, or bad smell. Often, it means something people put on their bodies so their sweat does not smell as bad. The most commonly used deodorants are for use on the armpits. These are also anti-perspirants because they reduce the production of sweat. There are deodorants for other places on the body as well. Deodorant can be sold in the form of sprays, bottles, or sticks that are rolled onto the body.

Silesia

Silesia (; ; ; Silesian: "Ślůnsk") is a historical region of Poland. From 1742 to 1945, it was a province in the east of Prussia and later Germany. In 1945, all of Poland was occupied by the Soviet Red Army. In the following years, the communist occupant enacted laws that in effect chased away all of the remaining owners.

Silesia is along the upper and middle Oder River, upper Vistula River, and along the Sudetes and the Carpathian Mountains.

The highest point of Silesia is the Śnieżka, in the Sudetes.

Here is a list of cities in Silesia with a population of over 20,000 in 2015:


There are many famous people who were born in Silesia:



Josh Holloway

Josh Holloway (born July 20, 1969 in San Jose, California) is an American actor most known for his role as James "Sawyer" Ford on ABC's Emmy award-winning show "Lost".

Levon Mkrtchyan

Levon Mkrtchyan, (, ; born 25 February 1953, in Gyumri) is an Armenian movie director known for his documentaries "The Muses", "Paruyr Sevag", "Hovhannes Shiraz", "Mashtoc", "And There Was Light", "A Transcript for Independence", and many more. 
He studied in the Directing Department of the Yerevan Fine Arts and Theater Institute.
In 1978, he released his debut short movie "The Muses". In 1984, he graduated from the Directing Department of VGIK in Moscow. Since 1978, he has shot thirty-three documentaries. He filmed and has an incredible archive about well known Armenians, including the only film footage on Hovhannes Shiraz, incredible footage on Charles Aznavour visiting Armenia after the 1988 earthquake, the funeral of William Saroyan. Levon Mkrtchyan continues his contribution to the Armenian people by making more documentaries about the well known Armenians.1993 The Armenian Kingdom of Kilikia Footage includes the President of France - Francois Mitterand The President of Armenia - Levon Ter-Petrosyan. 
“Hayk” Studio of Documental movies is currently working on a documentary about William Saroyan, dedicated to the renowned Armenian American writer’s 100th Anniversary. 
The director of the movie is Levon Mkrtchyan, an accomplished and famous Armenian movie director who is known for his biographical documentaries about people who have had a great impact in the history of the Armenian nation (Jansem, Hovhannes Shiraz, Davit Anhaght, "My Komitas"). The filming will take place in the United States where William Saroyan was born and has lived most of his life. Additional filming will take place in France, Turkey, Russia and Armenia. Mr. Mkrtchyan already has an original footage from William Saroyan’s funeral ceremony which has taken place in Armenia. The narration of the movie is going to be offered to Al Pacino. “Hayk” Studio of Documental movies will collaborate with producers in the United States, to bring this exceptional project to life.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_uMokKYvkNE

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N9LrzZQGJ_w
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O77oh_HyQIA



Manuel Fraga Iribarne

Manuel Fraga Iribarne (November 23, 1922 in Vilalba – January 15, 2012 in Madrid) was a Spanish and Galician politician. Fraga was a politician in Spain under Francisco Franco's dictatorial regime and in the democracy after Franco's death. He was the President of Galicia from 1990 to 2005 and governed the region strictly with a hard hand. He was loved by those who supported him, and loathed by his opponents.

Galicia (Spain)

Galicia or Galiza is a nationality in Spain that became a Spanish autonomous community in 1978. It is in the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula. It shares borders with Portugal to the South and the communities of Castile and León and Asturias to the east.

Galicia is a green country with Celtic features. Since re-gaining autonomy in 1978, Galicia has been governed by the Xunta de Galicia (government of Galicia). Galicia was strictly governed from 1990 until 2005, during the Manuel Fraga years. The Xunta de Galicia was then under a socialist president Emilio Perez Touriño, who had made Galicia more liberal than ever before, until 2009. From March 2009 Partido Popular (right-wing party) won power and the new president is Alberto Núñez Feijoo, who won a second term as president in 2012.

Galicia has one main language:"Galician" "galego". It has many similarities with Portuguese. Galego and Portuguese have the same origin. Spanish is also spoken in Galicia, but mainly as a second language.

Galicia is very famous for its fishing industry and seafood remains an important part of its cuisine. A very popular dish in Galicia is "polbo á feira", ("polbo" means octopus). There are many restaurants that serve seafood in Galicia.

Bilirubin

Bilirubin is a product that comes from the breakdown of haemoglobin. Its levels are higher in certain diseases and it causes the yellow color of bruises and the brown color of faeces. Its level usually measured to monitor liver or gallbladder problems.

Nelly Furtado

Nelly Kim Furtado (born December 2, 1978) is a Portuguese-Canadian singer-songwriter.
She can also play many musical instruments. She learned to play the trombone and the ukulele at the age of four. In later years, she learned to play the guitar and keyboard. She has released five albums. The first album was released in 2000 and was called "Whoa! Nelly". She become famous worldwide because the album was very popular. The first single released was "I'm Like a Bird" which earned her a Grammy Award. Her second album was "Folklore" released in 2003. It was not as popular as the previous album. Her third album in 2006 was "Loose" which spawned many hit songs including "Promiscuous", "Maneater", "Say It Right" and "All Good Things (Come to an End)". She then released a Spanish language album in 2009 titled "Mi Plan" and in 2010 released a greatest hits album. Her next English language album "The Spirit Indestructible" was released in 2012. Furtado's parents are Portuguese immigrants. She sings in English, Spanish and Portuguese.
On September 20, 2003, she gave birth to a daughter, Nevis.

Her parents named her Nelly Kim in reference to Kazakh gymnastics champion Nellie Kim who won 5 gold medals (3 in 1976 and 2 in 1980) and 1 silver (in 1976) at the Olympic Games.

She learned to play trombone, guitar and ukulele at the age of 9 and the synthesizer at age 11. Passionate about music from an early age, she knows from the age of 4 that she wants to become a singer. Nelly sang with her mother in a choir, especially during Portugal's National Day.

As a teenager, she began to write songs and was part of a Portuguese fanfare. During this time, she listened to R & B, hip-hop, alternative rock, alternative hip-hop, trip hop, fado, bossa nova, Indian music and variety. The artists that Nelly loved (and influenced her) include: Jeff Buckley, Caetano Veloso, Jennifer Lopez, Amalia Rodrigues, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Cornershop, Maryh Blige, Mariah Carey, TLC, Digable Planets, De The Soul, Aaliyah, Radiohead, Oasis, The Smashing Pumpkins, The Verve, U2, Kylie Minogue, Beck.

Anna Jurkiewicz

Anna Jurkiewicz (born February 9, 1984 in Oświęcim, Poland) is a Polish figure skater.

As a young girl, she was one of the best young skaters in the world. Then she had some health problems and was not able to skate. She returned in 2006 and has been competing internationally since autumn 2006.


Exmoor

Exmoor is a national park in England. The border of two counties, Devon and Somerset, runs through it. It is an area of sandstone hills which form tall cliffs on its north coast. The high ground of Exmoor is mostly rough grassland, but there are small woodlands on its lower slopes.

In Exmoor is an important water reservoir, Wimbleball Lake.

It is also famous for the Exmoor Pony.


Barnstaple

Barnstaple is a town in Devon, a county in South West England. 20,724 people live there. It is found west southwest of Bristol, north of Plymouth and northwest of the county town of Exeter.


Bideford

Bideford is a town in north Devon, a county in South West England. It is on the River Torridge. 14,407 people live there. It is a port, and its main export is clay.

Tiverton

Tiverton is a town in Mid Devon, Devon, England. In 2001, it had a population of 18,621. It was once a centre of lace making, but this industry has now declined.

People have lived around the area since the Stone Age. There is a hillfort on a hill above the town. Roman fortifications have been found nearby. 


Persian

Persian might mean:


Torbay

Torbay is a Unitary authority in England. 120,000 people live there. It is on the south coast and has over 20 beaches. Tourism is very important to the local economy.

Torbay is not a town. Rather, it contains three towns (Torquay, Paignton and Brixham) and a few villages, the largest of which is Galmpton.

Torbay was first created as a county borough in 1967, uniting the urban districts of its three towns. In 1974 it became a borough of Devon, its surrounding county. Then in 1993 It was given unitary authority status, having the powers of both a borough and a county. In 2007 a referendum led to the adoption of a directly elected Mayor.

1215

1215 was a common year.


391

391 was a common year.


Beyond (album)

Beyond is an album by the American alternative rock band Dinosaur Jr. It was released in April 2007. It was the band's first album since 1997's "Hand it Over". It was the first album since 1988's "Bug" to have all of the band's original members. The album is in the usual Dinosaur Jr style of very loud guitars with many skillful guitar solos. The album has been successful. It is generally well thought of by music critics.


Mitt Romney

Willard Mitt Romney (born March 12, 1947), usually called Mitt Romney, is an American politician and businessman. Romney is the junior United States senator from Utah since January 3, 2019. He was the 70th Governor of Massachusetts serving from 2003 to 2007. He ran for the Republican Party nomination in the 2008 election, but lost the nomination to United States senator John McCain of Arizona.

Romney would run again for the nomination in the 2012 election, only this time winning the nomination beating former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum and former Speaker Newt Gingrich. His running mate was U.S. Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. He ran against the incumbent President Barack Obama. He lost the election winning 206 of the electoral college to Obama's 332.

In the aftermath of the election, Romney remained low in politics and in the 2016 presidential election, Romney was a critic of Donald Trump and would endorse former Governor Gary Johnson of the Libertarian Party. After the election of Trump, it was thought that Trump would pick Romney as Secretary of State, but the position went to businessman Rex Tillerson.

After Utah Senator Orrin Hatch retired on February 16, 2018, Romney became a candidate for the United States senate in the 2018 election. In June 2018, Romney won the Republican nomination for the Senate seat. He won the general election in a landslide victory replacing retiring Senator Orrin Hatch.

Romney was born in Detroit. His father, George Romney, was an auto executive and Governor of Michigan and his mother Lenore Romney, was an actress and politician. When Mitt was young, he served a Mormon mission in France. Romney graduated from Brigham Young University, in 1971, and later went to Harvard Business School and Harvard Law School. In the 1980s, Romney was one of the leaders of Bain Capital, a company that bought other companies and tried to make them more profitable. In 1994, Romney ran for the United States Senate against Ted Kennedy, but lost. Romney was in charge of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, which helped run the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah. Romney took over the committee after a scandal where some people were being bribed.

After success with the Olympics, Romney became Governor of Massachusetts. While Governor, he was one of the supporters of Massachusetts' health care plan though he now opposes Barack Obama's health care plan. Both plans are very similar.

He ran for president in 2008, but the Republican Party nominated John McCain instead. He ran again in 2012 and was nominated to be the main Republican candidate against President Barack Obama, but lost the election.

After winning the Republican Party presidential primaries in 2012, Mitt Romney took part of the United States presidential election. He won the primaries against its major rivals Ron Paul and Newt Gingrich. Right after his winning in the republican primaries and access to the 2012 presidential campaign, Mitt Romney has been critiqued by the Democratic Party (United States) for being part in the board of directors for the company Bain Capital Inc. from 1999 to 2002. During these three years, purchases of different companies by Bain Capital led to relocation of high-tech jobs in the United States to Mexico and China. In these uncertain economic times, this charge was unpopular with the average American. The Democratic Party (United States) also revealed with the help of the American Broadcasting Company that Mitt Romney has bank accounts in the Cayman Islands which would allow him to stare money over U.S. tax laws . About this guilt, Mitt Romney said during his campaign in New Hampshire :"{…} if there's an opportunity to save taxes, we like anybody else in this country will follow that opportunity.”.

During the first televised debate of the presidential campaign, Mitt Romney accused President Obama of having plunged America into the deepest economic crisis since the 1930s. He also suggests that President Barack Obama had not met its promises during his presidential previous mandate like increase the real income of the average American family. Mitt Romney made a provision to which pleased many American citizens during the debate that allowed him to gain some points to national survey and even surpass Barack Obama in the voting intentions of Americans.

After the first debate, an internet site named www.motherjones.com revealed on Monday September. 17, 2012 a YouTube video of Mitt Romney talking about some people of the United States who live at the expense of the state.
In this video he said: "There are 47 percent of the people who will vote for the president no matter what. All right, there are 47 percent who are with him, who are dependent upon government, who believe that they are victims, who believe the government has a responsibility to care for them, who believe that they are entitled to health care, to food, to housing, to you-name-it -- that that's an entitlement. And the government should give it to them. And they will vote for this president no matter what. ... These are people who pay no income tax. ... [M]y job is not to worry about those people. I'll never convince them they should take personal responsibility and care for their lives."

On the night of November 6, 2012, he announced that Barack Obama was re-elected as President of the United States of America and by extension Mitt Romney lost his chance to become president. He had received 206 votes against the 270 required to win.

His niece, Ronna Romney McDaniel, became the new Chair of the Republican Party after President Donald Trump nominated the then-Chairman Reince Priebus to White House Chief of Staff.

On January 2, 2018, after Orrin Hatch announced he would retire, Romney changed his Twitter location from Massachusetts to Holladay, Utah opening the long speculation of Romney running for the Senate seat.

On February 16, 2018, Romney formally launched his campaign through a video message posted on Facebook and Twitter. He won the Republican nomination on June 26, 2018.

Romney defeated Jenny Wilson in the general election in November 2018.

On February 13, 2021 Romney voted that Republican nominated President Donald Trump was guilty of starting the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol. He and six other Republican senators also voted that Trump was guilty. This was after the House of Representatives Second impeachment of Donald Trump.

In 2021, Romney received the Profile in Courage Award for his impeachment vote for Trump.

In September 2023, Romney announced he would not run for re-election in 2024 and retire from the Senate when his term expires in 2025.

Laboratory glassware

Laboratory glassware refers to various items which are usually made of glass and used for scientific work in chemistry and biology laboratories. Some of these items are now made of plastic which is less expensive and more convenient.

Pipettes, petri dishes, and test tubes are examples of laboratory glassware. These items are used to store materials, to measure their volume, to mix and prepare solutions, or to contain a chemical reaction.

Volta (album)

Volta is a 2007 album by Icelandic rock singer Björk. She has claimed the album is about "returning to her roots". The style of the album is electronic pop. Five singles were released from it. The first single "Earth Intruders" was released April 2007. It was produced by Timbaland.


Mulatto

Mulatto is a word referring to a person who is born to one black parent and one white parent. The term may be considered offensive or rude to some, because of its origin. The term is also used to refer to a light brown color, because of a mulatto's skin color. Many people prefer terms such as "biracial" and "of mixed race" over "mulatto".

In some cultures, such as in Cuba, there are a number of terms describing skin colour, and "none of them is taken as evaluative". There are simply descriptive terms. And in the Spanish language the term mulata would be used for females of mixed race.
There are other descriptive terms which are used in the Caribbean and Latin America, without their being regarded as racial in the pejorative sense.

Water polo

Water polo is a sport played in water with a ball. It has similarities to basketball and soccer, although players are in the pool. Players try to get the ball into the goal more times than the opposing team, without using goggles.

Water polo is a team game. Two teams play a match. Each match has four periods called "quarters". The length of each period is usually between 5 and 8 minutes. Because the amount of time spent on fouls or out throws is not counted in the quarter time, an average quarter really lasts around 12 minutes.

Each team has six field players and one goalkeeper. Water polo players need to be good at swimming and ball handing. They need good reflexes and awareness.

Players must keep floating in a game. Players may not stand on the bottom of the pool.

Water polo is played in a pool : depth is above 2 m, a vertical line is 30 m and width is 20 m.


To play water polo, you need swimwear, caps, mouth guards, a ball and a goal.
The caps' design is unique. They are designed to protect head and ears.


The rules of water polo were originally developed in the mid-nineteenth century in Great Britain by William Wilson. The game originated as a form of rugby football played in rivers and lakes in England and Scotland with a ball constructed of Indian rubber, probably from the 1850s onwards.



Fishstick

Fishsticks or fish fingers are a type of food probably invented in the United Kingdom. They are made of a whitefish like cod that is battered and breaded. They are often eaten with tartar sauce, or ketchup. "Fishsticks" are popular with children and their parents as an easy-to-prepare finger food that is somewhat healthy for kids.

Fishsticks first came about as a result of the invention of the plate froster in 1929, the first quick freezer. For rapid freezing, food needed to be in slim rectangular slabs. A suitable candidate for this freezing method was fishsticks, slivers (small, thin pieces) cut from large fish and dipped in bread crumbs for frying.

In Britain in the 1950s, most of the herring catch was pickled and exported to other North European countries. To make herring more appealing on the home market, companies tried to present it in a new way, creating herring fishsticks called “herring savouries”. They were tested on the market against a bland control product of cod sticks, sold as “fish fingers.” Shoppers in Southampton and South Wales, preferred the cod. Cod fishsticks were first produced in Great Yarmouth and introduced in Britain on 26 September 1955. They became very popular after television advertising began in 1956. 

On modern production lines, headless fish are processed through a machine that removes a fillet from each side of the backbone. The fillets then pass over a wheel and a blade that separates the skin from the flesh. Machine filleting leaves a few pin-like bones in the fillet, so the flesh containing the bones is cut out.

Fillets are formed into frozen blocks. A conveyor sends the blanks through batter and breadcrumbs, doubling the thickness of the fishstick. Then each is passed through a hot vegetable oil bath for about one minute to seal the coating and allow the fishstick to be grilled or fried. Then the fishstick is frozen again, with the center reaching -4 °F/-20 °C in less than 20 minutes. After packaging, it is stored at -18 °F/-28 °C, ready for distribution.



Nelly

Cornell Iral Haynes Jr. (born November 2, 1974) is an American rapper, singer, and entrepreneur better known by his stage name Nelly. He won three Grammy Awards in 2003 and nine Billboard Music Awards. Nelly's first five studio albums all reached the top three of the Billboard 200.

Boy band

A boy band is a type of musical group with three or more young male singers. Usually, the singers are able to perform as dancers as well. Most singers in boy bands do not play musical instruments. Boy bands usually perform pop or R&B music.

Despite negative critical reception, boy bands continue to be generally successful, with some notable ones managing to sell tens of millions of records, placing them among the world's best selling music artists. The best-selling boy bands based on sales figures are:

Some of the most popular boy bands include the following:



Solo (music)

In musical performance, a solo is a piece or a section of a piece that is played or sung by a single performer. This performer is called a "soloist". A soloist can be a singer or an instrumentalist.

Solos are common in classical music and jazz. In popular music, a "solo" is an improvised melody played by a single performer, such as a guitar solo. In the country music genre a solo is known as a "ride".


Antarctic krill

Antarctic krill ("Euphausia superba") is a species of krill that lives in the Antarctic waters of the Southern Ocean. They are shrimp-like and belong to the invertebrates. 

They live in large groups, called swarms. Sometimes these swarms have a density of 10,000–30,000 individual animals per cubic meter. 

They feed directly on very small phytoplankton, so they can use the energy that the phytoplankton originally got from the sun in order to sustain their life in the open ocean. They grow to a length of 6 cm, weigh up to 2 g, and can live for up to six years. They are a key species in the Antarctic ecosystem and are, in terms of biomass, probably the most successful animal species on the planet (approximately 500 million tonnes).

In aquaria, krill have been observed to eat each other. 


Cubic metre

The cubic metre (symbol m³) is the SI unit of volume. It is a cube with a length, height, and width of one metre, with 1,000 litres of space.

In the many places it is spelled "cubic meter". Other names are stère and kilolitre or kiloliter.

1 cubic metre equals:

A cubic metre of pure water at the temperature of maximum density (3.98 °C) and standard atmospheric pressure (101.325 kPa) has a mass of 1000 kg, or one tonne. At 0 °C, the freezing point of water, it is slightly less, 999.972 kg.

It is sometimes abbreviated ', ', ', ', , when superscript characters or markup are not available/accessible (i.e. in some typewritten documents and postings in Usenet newsgroups).

Abbreviated CBM in the freight business and MTQ (or numeric code 49) in international trade.






Food and Agriculture Organization

The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations that leads international efforts to defeat hunger established on 16 October 1945.

It serves both developed and developing countries and acts as a neutral form where all nations meet as equals. FAO is also a source of knowledge and information, and helps developing countries and countries in transition modernize and improve agriculture, forestry and fisheries practices, ensuring good nutrition and food security for all.






Colorimeter

A colorimeter is a device used for measuring colours, or colorimetry. It measures the absorbance of different wavelengths of light in a solution. It can be used to measure the concentration of a known solute.

Different chemical substances absorb different wavelengths of light. When the concentration of the solute is higher, it absorbs more light in a specific wavelength. This is known as the Beer-Lambert law.

The most important parts of a colorimeter are:

Different filters are used to select the wavelength of light which the solution absorbs the most. This makes the colorimeter more accurate. Solutions are usually placed in glass or plastic cuvettes. The usual wavelengths used are between 400 and 700 nanometers. If it is necessary to use ultraviolet light (below 400 nanometers) then the lamp and filters must be changed.

The output of the colorimeter may be shown in graphs or tables, by an analogue or digital meter. The data may be printed on paper, or stored in a computer. The output may be shown as transmittance (a linear scale from 0-100%) or as absorbance (a logarithmic scale from zero to infinity). The useful range of the absorbance scale is from 0-2 but it is desirable to keep within the range 0-1 because, above 1, the results become unreliable due to scattering of light. A Transmittance-Absorbance conversion table may be seen here.

Valletta

Valletta is the capital city of Malta. It was founded by Jean Parisot de la Valette, the Grandmaster of the Order of Saint John on March 28, 1566. The city's population is 6,315 (in 2005) and it is currently decreasing as people move to the UK, Italy, or the newer areas of Malta.

Basketball Bundesliga

The Basketball Bundesliga (BBL) is the highest level of basketball competition in Germany. The BBL determines the national champion.



Butterfield, Missouri

Butterfield, Missouri is a village in Missouri, United States.

According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of 1.1 km² (0.4 mi²), all land.

At the 2000 census, there were 397 people, 136 households, and 102 families living in the village. The population density was 365.0/km² (947.6/mi²). There were 149 houses at an average density of 137.0/km² (355.7/mi²). The racial mix of the village was 85.14% white, 0.50% African American, 0.50% Native American, 11.59% from other races, and 2.27% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 21.41% of the population.

There were 136 households out of which 43.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 56.6% were [married couples living together, 13.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 24.3% were non-families. 22.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.92 and the average family size was 3.44.

In the village the population was spread out with 34.0% under the age of 18, 11.8% from 18 to 24, 28.2% from 25 to 44, 20.2% from 45 to 64, and 5.8% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 28 years. For every 100 females there were 98.5 males.This is also the case for females over 18. 

The median income for a household in the village was $24,706, and the median income for a family was $28,000. Males had a median income of $20,417 versus $18,750 for females. The per citizen income for the village was $9,460. About 19.8% of families and 19.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 25.2% of those under age 18 and 28.6% of those age 65 or over.

Andorra la Vella

Andorra la Vella is the capital city of the principality of Andorra and is one of the seven parishes of Andorra. It is in the southwestern part of the country.

The Andorra la Vella parish is in the southwestern part of the country at the confluence of two mountain streams, the "Valira del Nord" (Northern Valira) and the "Valira de l'Orient" (Eastern Valira), which join to form the Gran Valira that flows through the capital city.

The parish borders with the La Massana parish to the north, with the Escaldes-Engordany parish to the east, with the Sant Julià de Lòria parish to the south and with Spain to the west.

The highest mountain in the parish is "Pic d'Os" () with an elevation of above sea level; it is on the border with the Sant Julià de Lòria parish and Spain.

At 1023 m (3,356 ft) above sea level, it is the highest capital in Europe.

The parish had a population, in 2015, of 22,886 inhabitants, for a population density of persons/km².
Evolution of the population in Andorra la Vella

The urban areas in the parish are:

Andorra la Vella is the country's commercial centre. The city is also the centre for many banks and businesses. The state is not a member of the European Union, but has a customs arrangement with the EU, and uses the euro.

Woodland

Woodland is a low-density forest with plenty of sunlight and limited shade. It forms an open habitat. 

Woodlands have an understory of shrubs and herbaceous plants including grasses. Woodlands grade into shrubland in drier conditions or in early stages of plant succession. Higher densities and areas of trees, with largely closed canopy, and nearly continuous shade and are often called forests. 

"Woodland" in British forestry means any smaller area covered in trees, however dense. Forest in the British Isles means extensive wooded areas, regardless of density. Royal forests may not be wooded at all. The term ancient woodland is used in British conservation to mean any wooded land that has existed for a very long time (equivalent to the American term old growth forest).

Conservationist work hard to preserve woodlands. The woodlands in Northwest Indiana have been preserved as part of the Indiana Dunes.

Limburg (Netherlands)

Limburg is the southernmost province of the Netherlands. Its capital is Maastricht. About 1,128,000 people are living in Limburg (2023).

It is the only province in the Netherlands which has hills. It is a very old province; the capital city, Maastricht, is over 2000 years old. The Limburgish people do speak Dutch, but they also speak their own dialects called Limburgish. These dialects - especially the ones in the South of Limburg, the normal Dutch people find difficult to understand. These dialects have many influences from German and French. The Limburgish are renowned for their famous vlaai. 

Limburg got its status as a Dutch Province in 1867 

Limburger cheese comes from this region.

Mount Cayley

Mount Cayley is an eroded stratovolcano. It is 11 km southeast of Callaghan Lake and 24 west of Whistler, British Columbia, Canada. It is part of the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt which is a segment of the Cascade Volcanic Arc.

A scenario of an eruption of Mount Cayley shows how western Canada is vulnerable to an eruption. The scenario is based on past activity in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt and involves both effusive and explosive eruptions. The scenario impact is largely a result of the concentration of vulnerable infrastructure in valleys.

In 2003, Catherine Hickson, a scientist with the Geological Survey of Canada, was one of the three scientists to report on the hypothetical eruption at Mount Cayley. The first signs of activity at the volcano would probably be enlarged seismic activity in and close to the mountain. Flooding would turn out to be a huge issue for the community of Squamish and could eventually overrun parts of Highway 99.

The Mount Cayley volcanic field is named after Mount Cayley.

Limburg

Limburg might mean:






Limburg (Belgium)

Limburg (, , , ) is the easternmost of the five provinces of modern Flanders, which is one of the three main political and cultural sub-divisions of modern Belgium. Its capital is Hasselt.

Limburg is located west of the Meuse (Dutch "Maas") river, upon which it borders the similarly named province Limburg of the Netherlands. It also borders on the Walloon province of Liège to the south, with which it also has historical ties. To the north and west are the old territories of the Duchy of Brabant, the Flemish provinces of Flemish Brabant and Antwerp to the west, and the Dutch province of North Brabant to the north.
The province of Limburg has an area of with a population of about 886,000 in 2022.

The province is divided into three arrondissements ("arrondissementen" in Dutch) with 42 municipalities. Among these municipalities are the current capital Hasselt, the early medieval capital Borgloon, Genk, Diepenbeek (home to Hasselt University), and Tongeren, the only Roman city in the province and regarded as the oldest city of Belgium.

The municipality of Voeren is geographically detached (an exclave) from Limburg and the rest of Flanders, with the Netherlands to the north and the Walloon province of Liège to the south. This municipality was established by the municipal reform of 1977.

The highest point of the province, , is in the town of Remersdaal, Voeren municipality.

The centre of Belgian Limburg is crossed east to west by the Demer river and the Albert Canal, which run similar paths. The Demer river's drainage basin covers most of the central and southern part of the province, except for the southeastern corner, where the Jeker (in French: "(le) Geer") runs past Tongeren and into the Maas river (in French: "(la) Meuse") at Maastricht.

The eastern border of the province corresponds to the western side of the Maas, which originates in France. It's drainage basin includes not only the Jeker but most of the northern part of Belgian Limburg.

The province of Limburg is divided into 3 "arrondissements" (Hasselt, Maaseik and Tongeren) and a total of 42 municipalities since 2019.

Population x 1,000 (on 1 January since 1980).



Limbourg

Limbourg or Limburg is a medieval city in the Belgian province of Liège. It was founded in the 11th century.

In 2007 its population was 5644.

It is located at 50° 37 North, 05° 56 East.

Limburg an der Lahn

Limburg an der Lahn (Limburg on the Lahn river) is a German town and the capital of the "Kreis" Limburg-Weilburg in the west of Hesse.

Stinky

Stinky could mean:




Illusion

An illusion is a distortion of perception. The brain arranges, sorts, and organises data from the senses. Normally the system works well. Sometimes it does not, and we see illusions. In general, they are shared by most people in the same situation.

Illusions can happen with all five senses (taste, touch, sight, smell, and hearing), and some involve the way information from two senses is put together. Some illusions happen because of disorders, but generally, all normal people can sense the same illusion. An illusion is different from a hallucination; a hallucination is sensing something that is not real, but an illusion is interpreting what we sense wrongly.

Optical illusions are the best known and understood. Because they are illusions common to most people, it follows that they are a product of the visual system. The visual system, from the retina to the visual cortex, is what is common to most humans. 

These are illusions which are heard. The person listening hears sounds that aren’t really there, or sounds that can’t really happen. A Shepard tone is an auditory illusion.

They are when a person feels something that is not there, or something that should not be there but feels like it is. This happens sometimes when a person loses their arm. The person still feels like the arm is there. They might want to scratch the arm, or the arm might hurt them. This can happen with any limb of the body, and it is called the phantom limb.

Charcoal

Charcoal is a carbon-containing substance made from wood, naturally black and powdery. Charcoal is made from wood by heating it in an "airless" (minimal oxygen) space at a high temperature. The wood will not burn, but instead turn into charcoal. The by-product of making charcoal is tar and turpentine.

People use it for different things such as cooking on a barbecue grill, and in painting.

Brose Baskets

Brose Baskets Bamberg (also Brose Baskets) is a basketball club in Bamberg, Germany. In 2005 (as GHP Bamberg), 2007, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 it won the BBL. In 1992, 2010, 2011, and 2012 it won the German Cup.

Armenian Revolutionary Federation

The Armenian Revolutionary Federation (ARF or ՀՅԴ) (Armenian: – Hay Heghapokhakan Dashnaktsutiun, Dashnaktsutiun, – Dashnak or Tashnag) is an Armenian political party founded in Tiflis (Tbilisi in modern-day Georgia) in 1890 by Christapor Mikaelian, Stepan Shaumian, Stepan Zorian, and Simon Zavarian. The party works in Armenia and in countries where the Armenian diaspora is active, notably in Lebanon and the ethnically Armenian-dominated de facto Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh.

The Armenian Revolutionary Federation History Museum was created during an official ceremony Friday 2007 at Yerevan's Kristapor Mikaelian Center, with the party's leaders and supporters on hand to mark this momentous occasion.

Opened in 1946, the ARF History Museum was in Paris and during the years has collected more than 3,000 artifacts describing the party's history. After the ARF's return to Armenia, the museum and the ARF archives have been sent to Armenia.

Giro Manoyan is one of the leaders of ARF.


Christapor Mikaelian

Christapor Mikaelian (Armenian: ) also known by his "noms de guerre" Hellen (), Topal (), and Edward (), (1859-1905) was one of the three founders of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation along Stepan Zorian and Simon Zavarian, also part of Armenian national liberation movement.

Rosdom was born in the village of Agulis in Goghtn, now part of the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic. He graduated from the Professorial academy of Tiflis and also attended the University of Moscow, where he met Simon Vratsian, another co-founder of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation. 


Varazdat

Varasdates or Varazdat (, Varazdat) was an Armenian prince who succeeded his uncle King Papes as King of Armenia in 374.

Following the murder of King Papes, Valens sent Varazdat, a nephew of Pap, a young man highly reputed for his mental and physical gifts, to hold the Armenian throne. Shapur II, having failed on the battlefield, now proposed to Valens in 375 that Armenia be divided between the two powers. The Emperor rejected the proposal, but sent Victor Magistrianus to the Persian King to discuss the question. This emissary was cozened into exceeding the bounds of his authority and agreeing to the Persian proposal. In the meantime, the internal condition of Armenia was imperiled through friction between King Varazdat and the nakharars, culminating in the assassination of Musel Mamikonian, the leader of the latters' party. Manuel, the son of Musel, took up arms against the King and compelled him to flee from Armenia in 378, after four years of reign. Varazdat's life was saved, but the country was thrown into confusion. The Persians took advantage of the turmoil and invaded Armenia; but their occupation was a short-lived one. Shapur II died in 379, and the Persians evacuated in haste. Manuel, the dynamic Mamikonian, had rallied a formidable national force for action. 


Adana massacre

The Adana massacre happened in Adana Province, in the Ottoman Empire, in April 1909. A religious-ethnic clash in the city of Adana amidst governmental upheaval resulted in a series of anti-Armenian pogroms throughout the district. Reports estimated that the massacres in Adana Province resulted in 20,000 to 30,000 deaths.


Adana

Adana (Greek Άδανα) (the ancient "Antioch in Cilicia" or "Antioch on the Sarus") is the capital of Adana Province in Turkey. According to the 2000 census, with 1,130,710 inhabitants, it is the fifth most populous city of Turkey (after İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir and Bursa). The 2006 estimate of Adana's population is 1,271,894. 

For most Turkish people, the word 'Adana' associates with Kebab, şalgam, cotton, oranges and very hot weather, in the awareness that Adana also embodies more than just these. 

Adana is also named among the 25 "European Regions of the Future" for 2006/2007 by Foreign Direct Investment Magazine. Chosen alongside Kocaeli for Turkey, Adana scored the most points for cost effectiveness against Kocaeli's points for infrastructure development, while Adana and Kocaeli tied on points for the categories of human resources and quality of life. 

Adana has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csa" in the Koeppen climate classification).



Parsley massacre

In October 1937, Dominican dictator Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina ordered the execution of the Haitian population living within the borderlands with Haiti. The violence resulted in the killing of 17,000 to 35,000 Haitian civilians over a span of approximately five days. This would later become known as the Parsley Massacre.

Trujillo had made his actions for the Haitian community clear in a short speech given at a dance held in his honor on October 2, 1937 in Dajabón, stating:

Heat pump

A heat pump is a machine that moves heat from a cold place to a hot place. Examples include:


Usually, heat flows from a hot place to a cold place, according to the second law of thermodynamics. Heat will not move from a cold place to a warmer place by itself. Because of this, a heat pump must use extra energy to move the heat. This is sort of like pumping water uphill.

Most heat pumps use electric motors to provide energy. Some heat pumps use heat energy, supplied by a flame or an electric heater.
Most heat pumps have a refrigeration cycle using a compressor. A refrigeration cycle uses a fluid which moves through tubes and carries the heat. The fluid is called a refrigerant. During the refrigeration cycle, the refrigerant changes from a liquid to a gas and back to a liquid.

When the refrigerant changes from a (compressed) liquid to a gas, it absorbs heat energy from the environment. When the refrigerant changes from a gas back to a liquid, it loses heat energy.

The heat pump is set up so that the refrigerant gains heat from one place that will be cooled, and moves it to another place that will be warmed.

A heat pump forces the refrigerant to change from a gas to a liquid. It uses a compressor to do this. Often, an electric motor drives the compressor. The compressor compresses the refrigerant, and this makes it change from a gas to a liquid. Compressing will heat up the liquid extensively.

At the other end of the cycle, the refrigerant boils again, absorbing heat from its surroundings, it cools them down. So where the refrigerant is changing from a liquid to a gas, it feels cooler.

This is the complete cycle, from the cooling side to the heating side:
On the cooling side, heat is taken up to boil the refrigerant from a liquid to a gas. Then the fluid moves to the heating side.There, the compressor forces the refrigerant back to a liquid again. This makes it give up its heat. So heat has moved from the cooling side to the heating side. Then, the cycle repeats.

If the cooling side is the inside of a refrigerator, it gets cold.

If the cooling side is the inside of a building, and the warming side is the outside of the building, the inside of the building gets cold. This is how an air conditioner works.

If the cooling side is the outside of the building, and the warming side is the inside of the building, this is how a heat pump can heat a building during the winter.

The British government sees heat pumps as an important part of moving away from fossil fuels. They want to see 600,000 new heat pumps per year by 2028. There is a grant of £7,500 to help with the cost. In 2024 not many people were fitting them.


Second law of thermodynamics

The second law of thermodynamics says that when energy changes from one form to another form, or matter moves freely, entropy (disorder) in a closed system increases.

Differences in temperature, pressure, and density tend to even out after a while. Due to the force of gravity, density and pressure do not even out vertically. Density and pressure on the bottom will be more than at the top.

Entropy is a measure of spread of matter and energy to everywhere they have access.

The most common wording for the second law of thermodynamics is essentially due to "Rudolf Clausius": It is impossible to construct a device that produces no other effect than transfer of heat from lower temperature body to higher temperature body

In other words, everything tries to maintain the same temperature over time.

There are many statements of the second law which use different terms, but all mean the same thing. Another statement by Clausius is: Heat cannot of itself pass from a colder to a hotter body.

An equivalent statement by Lord Kelvin is: A transformation whose only final result is to convert heat, extracted from a source at constant temperature, into work, is impossible.

The second law only applies to large systems. The second law is about the likely behavior of a system where no energy or matter gets in or out. The bigger the system is, the more likely the second law will be true.
In a general sense, the second law says that temperature differences between systems in contact with each other tend to even out and that work can be obtained from these non-equilibrium differences, but that loss of thermal energy occurs, when work is done and entropy increases. Pressure, density and temperature differences in an isolated system, all tend to equalize if given the opportunity; density and pressure, but not temperature, are affected by gravity. A heat engine is a mechanical device that provides useful work from the difference in temperature of two bodies.

--Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington, "The Nature of the Physical World" (1927)

--Greg Hill and Kerry Thornley, "Principia Discordia" (1965)

--Philosopher / Physicist P.W. Bridgman, (1941)




Air conditioner

An air conditioner (AC) is a system or a machine that treats air in a defined, usually enclosed area via a refrigeration cycle in which warm air is removed and replaced with cooler air. 

In construction, a complete system of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning is called HVAC. Whenever Refrigeration is added it is called HVACR. Whether in homes, offices, or vehicles, its purpose is to provide comfort by altering the properties of the air, usually by cooling the air inside. The main function of an air conditioner is to change adverse temperatures.

In the 19th century British scientist and inventor Michael Faraday discovered that compressing and liquefying ammonia could chill air when the liquefied ammonia was allowed to evaporate. 

In 1842, American physician Dr. John Gorrie used compressor technology to create ice, which he used to cool air for his patients. He hoped eventually to use his ice-making machine to regulate the temperature of buildings and even considered cooling entire cities with a system of centralized air conditioning units.

Air conditioning engineers broadly divide air conditioning applications into "comfort" and "process". 

Comfort applications aim to provide an indoor environment that remains relatively constant in a range preferred by humans despite changes in external weather conditions or in internal heat loads. 

Process applications aim to provide a suitable environment for an industrial or a commercial process, regardless of internal heat loads and external weather conditions. Although often in the same comfort range, it is the requirements of the process that determines conditions, not human preference. Process applications include:

Other examples include:

In both comfort and process applications, the objective is not only to control temperature; (although in some comfort applications, this is all that is controlled) but also factors like humidity, air movement, and air quality.)

In the refrigeration cycle, a pump transfers heat from a lower temperature source into a higher temperature heat sink. Heat will naturally flow in the opposite direction. This is the most common type of air conditioning. A refrigerated air conditioning system works in much the same way, pumping heat out of the room in which it stands.

This cycle takes advantage of the universal gas law "PV" = "nRT", where "P" is pressure, "V" is volume, "R" is the universal gas constant, "T" is temperature, and "n" is the number of molecules of gas (1 mole = 6.022×10 molecules).

The most common refrigeration cycle uses an electric motor to drive a compressor. In an automobile, the compressor is driven by a pulley on the engine's crankshaft, with both using electric motors for air circulation. Since evaporation occurs when heat is absorbed, and condensation occurs when heat is released, air conditioners are designed to use a compressor to cause pressure changes between two compartments, and actively pump a coolant around an enclosed system. They do this in a Condenser and a Evaporator The cooling liquid, or refrigerant is pumped into the cooled compartment (the evaporator coil). Low pressure then causes the refrigerant to evaporate taking the heat with it. In the other compartment (the condenser), the refrigerant vapor is compressed and forced through another heat exchange coil, condensed into a liquid which then rejects the heat previously absorbed from the cooled space.

Air conditioning has as much influence on human health as any generic heating system. Poorly maintained air-conditioning systems (especially large, centralized systems) can occasionally promote the growth and spread of microorganisms such as "Legionella pneumophila," the infectious agent responsible for Legionnaire's disease. Air conditioning can have a positive effect on sufferers of allergies and asthma.

In serious heat waves, air conditioning can save the lives of the elderly. Some local authorities have even set up public cooling centers for the benefit of those without air conditioning at home.




Branch (disambiguation)

A branch is a part of a tree.

Branch or branching could also mean:








First law of thermodynamics

The first law of thermodynamics is that energy can neither be created nor destroyed; it can change only from one form to another. The law forms the basis of the principle of conservation of energy. This means that anything that uses energy is changing the energy from one kind of energy to another. For example, exercising changes energy from food into kinetic (motion) energy. Another example: In the Sun (or any star), nuclear fusion changes mass into heat and light (electromagnetic radiation), which travels to Earth and is used by plants to create food (chemical energy) by photosynthesis, which can be eaten by animals allowing them to move (kinetic energy). Energy only ever changes its form; it is neither created nor destroyed. This is why perpetual motion machines do not exist and could never exist; it would break a fundamental law of physics.

People can use the changes to do work that is useful. Examples of forms of energy in classical mechanics include heat, light, kinetic (movement) or potential energy. However, in modern physics it is considered that there are only two types of energy - mass and kinetic energy, although this may not be helpful to those not familiar with more complex physics.

The law means that the total energy of the universe (or any Closed system) is a constant. However, energy can be transferred from one part of the universe to another.

The most common wording of the first law of thermodynamics used by scientists is:

James Prescott Joule was the first person who found out by experiments that heat and work are convertible.

The first statement of the first law of thermodynamics was given by "Rudolf Clausius" in 1850: "There is a state function E, called 'energy', whose differential equals the work exchanged with the surroundings during an adiabatic process."

In thermodynamics and engineering, it is natural to think of the system as a heat engine which does work on the surroundings, and to state that the total energy added by heating is equal to the sum of the increase in internal energy plus the work done by the system. Hence formula_1 is the amount of energy lost by the system due to work done by the system on its surroundings. During the portion of the thermodynamic cycle where the engine is doing work, formula_1 is positive, but there will always be a portion of the cycle where formula_1 is negative, e.g., when the working gas is being compressed. When formula_1 represents the work done by the system, the first law is written:

People disagree whether energy is a positive or a negative number. So that formula_6 is the flow of heat out of the system, and formula_1 is the work into the system:

Because of this ambiguity, it is very important in any discussion involving the first law to explicitly establish the sign convention in use.

dU = the change in internal energy

Q = heat

W = work



Conservation of energy

In physics, the conservation of energy is that energy can not be created or destroyed, it can only be changed from one form to another, such as when electrical energy is changed into heat energy. Formally, it says that the total amount of energy in an isolated system remains constant, although it may change forms, e.g. friction turns kinetic energy into thermal energy. In thermodynamics, the first law of thermodynamics is a statement of the conservation of energy for thermodynamic systems.

From a mathematical point of view, the energy conservation law is a consequence of the shift symmetry of time; energy conservation is a result of the empirical fact that the laws of physics do not change with time itself. Philosophically, this can be stated as "nothing depends on time per se (time itself)".

Ancient philosophers as far back as Thales of Miletus had the idea that there is some underlying substance of which everything is made. But that is not the same as our concept of "mass-energy" today (for example, Thales thought the underlying substance was water).
In 1638, Galileo published his analysis of several situations. This included the famous "interrupted pendulum". This can be described (in modernized language) as conservatively converting potential energy to kinetic energy and back again. However, Galileo did not explain the process in modern terms and had not understood the modern concept either. The German Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz during 1676-1689 attempted a mathematical formulation of the kind of energy which is connected with "motion" (kinetic energy). Leibniz noticed that in many mechanical systems (of several masses, "m" each with velocity "v" ),

was conserved so long as the masses did not interact. He called this quantity the "vis viva" or "living force" of the system. The principle represents an accurate statement of the approximate conservation of kinetic energy in situations where there is no friction. 
Meanwhile, in 1843 James Prescott Joule independently discovered the mechanical equivalent in a series of experiments. In the most famous, now called the "Joule apparatus", a descending weight attached to a string caused a paddle immersed in water to rotate. He showed that the gravitational potential energy lost by the weight in descending was approximately equal to the thermal energy (heat) gained by the water by friction with the paddle.

Over the period 1840-1843, similar work was carried out by engineer Ludwig A. Colding though it was little-known outside his native Denmark.

It is easy to see that

formula_2

which is also

formula_3

formula_4

Assuming that formula_5 and that formula_6, then

formula_7

formula_8

formula_10

Therefore, energy does not vary with time.





Differences between butterflies and moths

The Lepidoptera are the butterflies and moths. However, though the butterflies are a natural monophyletic group, moths are not. Butterflies are often put in the suborder Rhopalocera, which includes Papilionoidea (true butterflies), the Hesperiidae (skippers), and the Hedylidae (butterfly moths). 

In Linnaean taxonomy, moths are usually put in the suborder Heterocera. This tends to cover up the fact that they are not a true natural monophyletic group. However, moths do look and behave rather different from butterflies, which explains why people came to call them by a different name.

Other taxonomic schemes have been proposed, but none of them is perfect. Both taxonomists and amateurs make use of the obvious differences between butterflies and moths.

The most obvious difference is in the feelers, or antennae. Most butterflies have thin slender filamentous antennae which are club shaped at the end. Moths, on the other hand, often have comb-like or feathery antennae, or filamentous and unclubbed. This distinction is the basis for the earliest taxonomic divisions in the Lepidoptera the Rhopalocera ("clubbed horn", the butterflies) and the Heterocera ("varied horn", the moths).

There are, however, exceptions to this rule and a few moths (the family Castniidae) have clubbed antennae. Some butterflies, like "Pseudopontia paradoxa" from the forests of central Africa, lack the clubbed ends. The "Hesperiids" often have an angle to the tip of the antenna.

Many moths have a "frenulum" or wing coupling physically attaching upper and lower parts of their wings together. The frenulum can be seen only when a specimen is in hand. There are various types. It may be a filament from the hindwing coupling with barbs on the forewing. Butterflies usually lack these structures. Their wing coupling is usually done by simple overlap of wing edges.

Most moth caterpillars spin a cocoon made of silk when they go into the pupal stage. Most butterflies on the other hand form an exposed pupa called a chrysalis.

There are many exceptions to this rule. Hawk moths form an exposed chrysalis which is underground. Spongy moths sometimes form butterfly-style pupae, hanging on twigs or tree bark, although usually they create flimsy cocoons out of silk strands and a few leaves, partially exposing the chrysalis. A few Skipper butterfly larvae also make crude cocoons in which they pupate, exposing the pupa a bit. The "Parnassius" butterfly larvae make a flimsy cocoon for pupation and they pupate near the ground surface between debris.

Most butterflies have bright colours on their wings. Nocturnal moths on the other hand are usually plain brown, grey, white or black and often with obscuring patterns of zigzags or swirls which help camouflage them as they rest during the day. However many day-flying moths are brightly coloured, particularly if they are toxic. A few butterflies are quite plain, like the cabbage white butterfly.

Moths tend to have stout and hairy or furry-looking bodies. Butterflies on the other hand have slender and smoother abdomens. Moths have larger scales on their wings. These make them look more dense and fluffy. Butterflies on the other hand have fine scales. This difference is possibly due to the need for moths to conserve heat during the cooler nights whereas butterflies are able to absorb sunlight.

Most moths are nocturnal or crepuscular (active at night) while most butterflies are diurnal (active at daytime). There are however exceptions, including the diurnal spongy moth and the spectacular "Uraniidae" or Sunset moths.

Moths usually rest with their wings spread out to their sides. Butterflies frequently fold their wings above their backs when they are perched although they will occasionally "bask" with their wings spread for short periods. However some butterflies, like the skippers, may hold their wings either flat or folded or even in-between (the so-called "jet plane" position) when perched. Most moths also occasionally fold their wings above their backs when they are in a certain spot (like when there is no room to fully spread their wings). A sometimes confusing family can be the "Geometridae" (such as the winter moth) because the adults often rest with their wings folded vertically. These moths have thin bodies and large wings like many butterflies but may be distinguished easily by structural differences in their antennae (e.g. bipectinate).

Monophyly

Monophyly means common descent from a single ancestor.
Biologists have introduced a kind of taxonomy called cladistics. The aim of this is to make biological classification fit what we know about the way organisms evolved.

If there is a group made of a common ancestor, and all its descendants, that group is monophyletic. (Greek: "of one race").

A group which contains organisms, without their common ancestor, is called polyphyletic. Convergent evolution is a usual cause of such groups. If a group contains the common ancestor, but leaves out some of its descendants, it is called paraphyletic. All living things on this planet are thought, on the basis of DNA analysis, to be monophyletic, that is, to have one origin, not many.

Example: all species in the genus "Homo" have come from the same ancestral form in the family Hominidae, and no other descendants are known. Thus the genus "Homo" is monophyletic.

If, on the other hand, it were discovered that "Homo habilis" had developed from a different ancestor from "Homo sapiens", and this ancestor were not included in the genus, then the genus would be polyphyletic. Since biologists by and large tend to prefer monophyletic groups, in this case, they would likely either split the genus or broaden it to include the additional forms.

Example of polyphyletic group: Sea slugs.

Sometimes taxonomists are frustrated fitting plant species into a monophyletic group because of polyploidy. There is clear evidence that some polyploid plant species are of multiple origins (the species has arisen more than once). For example, "Salsify", the hybrid goat's-beard, ("Tragopogon miscellus") has formed as many as 20 times in eastern Washington.

Also, it can happen that hybrids between two close plant species undergo polyploidy, and the polyploids continue as a new and distinct species. Situations like this are outside the normal rules of descent, and are dealt with by special decisions, guided by the International Commission of Botanical Nomenclature (ICBN).

Lepidoptera

The order Lepidoptera is the second biggest order of insects. It includes the moths and butterflies including the skippers. There is no common word for the group: ordinary people talk of "butterflies and moths". 

The order has more than 180,000 species in 128 families and 47 superfamilies. They are 10% of all the described species of living organisms. The Coleoptera (the beetles) is the only order that has more species.

The name, Lepidoptera, comes from the Ancient Greek words "λεπίδος" (scale) and "πτερόν" (wing).

The earliest discovered fossils date to 200 mya or earlier. This early origin was long before flowering plants evolved. Earlier butterflies must have been adapted to a habitat of cycads and conifers, something which had not previously been suspected. 

Lepidopterans go through complete metamorphosis. This means that they have a four parts to their lives. The first part is the egg. The second part is the caterpillar or larva. The third part is the pupa. The last part is the adult or imago.

The larvae have a tough head and a soft body. They have mouths that are made to chew. Some larvae are covered with hairs, or other body extensions. The larvae have three pairs of small legs on the thorax. These legs are called true legs. There are up to five pairs of bigger legs on the abdomen. These legs are called prolegs. Lepidopteran larvae can be confused with the larvae of sawflies. The difference between Lepidopteran larvae and sawfly larvae is that Lepidopteran larvae have tiny hooks on their prolegs. These hooks are called crochets. Most larvae are herbivores, but a few are carnivores and detritivores.

Adults have two pairs of wings. They are covered by small scales. In some species, the adults have very small wings or no wings at all. This is more common in females. Adults have antennae. Some moths have antennae that look like feathers. These feather-like antennae are larger in males than females. Adults have a mouthpart called a proboscis. It sucks nectar from flowers. Some adults do not have mouths and cannot feed. Others have different mouths that are made to pierce and suck blood or fruit juices.



Diurnal

Diurnality is a form of plant and animal behavior characterized by activity during daytime. Animals that are active during the day are called diurnal. They hunt or feed during the day and sleep during the night. Nocturnal animals do it the other way round.

Scientists sometimes use the word "crepuscular" to describe nocturnal animals that are not active when it is very dark at night; they are mostly active near dawn, dusk, and sometimes when the moon makes a lot of light.

Skipper (butterfly)

The skippers are a family of butterflies, the Hesperiidae. They are named after their quick, darting flight. 

Skippers used to be classified in their own superfamily, Hesperioidea, because they have their antennae clubs hooked backward like a crochet while the other butterflies have club-like tips to their antennae. Skippers also have generally stockier bodies than regular butterflies, with stronger wing muscles. 

There are about 3500 species of skippers. They are usually classified in the following subfamilies:

Many species of skippers look frustratingly alike. For example, some species in the genera "Erynnis", "Hesperia", and "Amblyscirtes" cannot currently be distinguished in the field even by experts. The only reliable method of telling them apart involving dissection and examination of the genitalia.

Examples include:


Energy conservation

Energy conservation is reducing the amount of energy used for different purposes. This may result in an increase of financial capital, environmental value, national and personal security, and human comfort.

Individuals and organizations that consume energy may conserve energy to reduce costs and promote economic, political and environmental sustainability. Industrial and commercial users may want to increase efficiency and thus maximize profit.

On a larger scale, energy conservation is an energy policy. In general, energy conservation reduces the energy consumption and energy demand per capita. This reduces the rise in energy costs, and can reduce the need for new power plants, and energy imports. The reduced energy demand can provide more flexibility in choosing the methods of energy production.

By reducing emissions, energy conservation helps to prevent climate change. Energy conservation makes it easier to replace non-renewable resources with renewable energy. Energy conservation is often the most economical solution to energy shortages.
The U.S. is the largest consumer of energy, although at current levels of growth, China may become the leading energy consumer. The U.S. Department of Energy categorizes national energy use in four broad sectors: transportation, residential, commercial, and industrial.

Energy usage in the transportation and residential sectors (about half of U.S. energy consumption) is largely controlled by individual domestic consumers. Commercial and industrial energy usage are controlled by businesses. National energy policy has a significant effect on energy usage across all four sectors.

The transportation sector includes all vehicles used for personal or freight transportation. Of the energy used in this sector, about 65% is used by gasoline-powered vehicles, mostly personally owned. Diesel-powered transport (trains, merchant ships, heavy trucks, etc.) consumes about 20%, and air traffic consumes most of the remaining 15%.

The oil supply crises of the 1970s spurred the creation, in 1975, of the federal Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) program, which required auto manufacturers to meet progressively higher fleet fuel economy targets. The next decade saw dramatic improvements in fuel economy, mostly the result of reductions in vehicle size and weight. These gains eroded somewhat after 1990 due to the growing popularity of sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans, which fall under the more lenient "light truck" CAFE standard.

In addition to the CAFE program, the U.S. government has tried to encourage better vehicle efficiency through tax policy. Since 2002, taxpayers have been eligible for income tax credits for gas/electric hybrid vehicles. A "gas-guzzler" tax has been assessed on manufacturers since 1978 for cars with exceptionally poor fuel economy. While this tax remains in effect, it currently generates very little revenue as overall fuel economy has improved.

Another focus in gasoline conservation is reducing the number of miles driven. An estimated 40% of American automobile use is associated with daily commuting. Many urban areas offer subsidized public transportation to reduce commuting traffic, and encourage carpooling by providing designated high-occupancy vehicle lanes and lower tolls for cars with multiple riders. In recent years telecommuting has also become a viable alternative to commuting for some jobs. 

A vehicle's gas mileage normally decreases rapidly at speeds above 55 miles per hour. A car or truck moving at 55 miles an hour can get about 15 percent better fuel economy than the same car going 65 mph. According to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), as a rule of thumb, each 5 mph you drive over 60 mph is similar to paying an additional $1.20 per gallon for gas (at $3.10 per gallon).

The residential sector refers to all private residences, including single-family homes, apartments, manufactured homes and dormitories. Energy use in this sector varies significantly across the country, due to regional climate differences and different regulation. On average, about half of the energy used in the U.S. homes is expended on space conditioning (i.e. heating and cooling).

The efficiency of furnaces and air conditioners has increased steadily since the energy crises of the 1970s. The 1987 National Appliance Energy Conservation Act authorized the Department of Energy to set minimum efficiency standards for space conditioning equipment and other appliances each year, based on what is "technologically feasible and economically justified".

Despite technological improvements, many American lifestyle changes have put higher demands on heating and cooling resources. The average size of homes built in the United States has increased significantly, from 1500 ft² in 1970 to 2300 ft² in 2005. The single-person household has become more common, as has central air conditioning: 23% of households had central air conditioning in 1978, that figure rose to 55% by 2001.

As a cheaper alternative to the purchase of a new furnace or air conditioner, most public utilities encourage smaller changes the consumer can make. Consumers have also been asked to adopt a wider indoor temperature range (e.g. 65 °F in the winter, 80 °F in the summer).


Energy usage in some homes may vary widely from these averages. In most residences no single appliance dominates, and any conservation efforts must be directed to numerous areas in order to achieve substantial energy savings. However, ground source heat pump systems are the more energy efficient, environmentally clean, and cost-effective space conditioning systems available (Environmental Protection Agency). They can achieve reductions in energy consumptions of up to 70%.

Current best practices in building design and construction result in homes that are much more energy conserving than average new homes. See Passive house, Superinsulation, Self-sufficient homes, Zero energy building, Earthship, Straw-bale construction, MIT Design Advisor, Energy Conservation Code for Indian Commercial Buildings.

Smart ways to construct homes such that minimal resources are used to cooling and heating the house in summer and winter respectively can significantly reduce energy costs!

The commercial sector consists of retail stores, offices (business and government), restaurants, schools and other workplaces. Energy in this sector has the same basic end uses as the residential sector, in slightly different proportions. Space conditioning is again the single biggest consumption area, but it represents only about 30% of the energy use of commercial buildings. Lighting, at 25%, plays a much larger role than it does in the residential sector. Lighting is also generally the most wasteful component of commercial use. A number of case studies indicate that more efficient lighting and elimination of over-illumination can reduce lighting energy by approximately fifty percent in many commercial buildings.

Commercial buildings can greatly increase energy efficiency by thoughtful design, with today's building stock being very poor examples of the potential of systematic (not expensive) energy efficient design (Steffy, 1997). Commercial buildings often have professional management, allowing centralized control and coordination of energy conservation efforts.

Solar heat loading through standard window designs usually leads to high demand for air conditioning in summer months. An example of building design overcoming this excessive heat loading is the Dakin Building in Brisbane, California, where fenestration was designed to achieve an angle with respect to sun incidence to allow maximum reflection of solar heat; this design also assisted in reducing interior over-illumination to enhance worker efficiency and comfort.

The industrial sector represents all production and processing of goods, including manufacturing, construction, farming, water management and mining. Increasing costs have forced energy-intensive industries to make substantial efficiency improvements in the past 30 years. For example, the energy used to produce steel and paper products has been cut 40% in that time frame, while petroleum/aluminum refining and cement production have reduced their usage by about 25%. These reductions are largely the result of recycling waste material and the use of cogeneration equipment for electricity and heating.

The energy required for delivery and treatment of fresh water often constitutes a significant percentage of a region's electricity and natural gas usage (an estimated 20% of California's total energy use is water-related.) In light of this, some local governments have worked toward a more integrated approach to energy and water conservation efforts.

Unlike the other sectors, total energy use in the industrial sector has declined in the last decade. While this is partly due to conservation efforts, it's also a reflection of the growing trend for U.S. companies to move manufacturing operations offshore.

The usage of telecommuting by major corporations is a significant opportunity to conserve energy, as many Americans now work in service jobs that enable them to work from home instead of commuting to work each day.





Cogeneration

Cogeneration (also combined heat and power, CHP) is the use of a heat engine or a power station to make both electricity and useful heat at the same time.

Conventional power plants emit the heat created as a byproduct of electricity generation into the environment through cooling towers, as flue gas, or by other means. Combined heat and power captures the waste heat for domestic or industrial heating purposes, either very close to the plant, or - especially in Scandinavia and eastern Europe - for distribution through pipes to heat local housing. Cogeneration is a thermodynamically efficient use of fuel. 

Byproduct heat at moderate temperatures (100 to 180°C) can also be used in absorption chillers for cooling. A plant producing electricity, heat and cold is sometimes called regeneration or more generally: polygene ration plant. 

Thermal power plants (including those that use fissile elements or burn coal, petroleum, or natural gas), and heat engines in general, do not convert all of their available energy into electricity. In most heat engines, a bit more than half is wasted as excess heat (see: Second law of thermodynamics). By capturing the excess heat, CHP uses heat that would be wasted in a conventional power plant, potentially reaching an efficiency of up to 70%, compared with at most 40% for the conventional plants. Less fuel needs to be consumed to produce the same amount of useful energy. Less pollution is produced for a given economic benefit.

An exact match between the heat and electricity needs rarely exists. A CHP plant can either meet the need for heat ("heat driven operation") or be run as a power plant with some use of its waste heat.

CHP is most efficient when the heat can be used on site or very close to it. Overall efficiency is reduced when the heat must be transported over longer distances. This requires heavily insulated pipes, which are expensive and inefficient. Electricity can be transmitted along a comparatively simple wire, and over much longer distances for the same energy loss.

A car motor becomes a CHP plant in winter, when the heat is useful for warming the interior of the vehicle. This example scores the point that deployment of CHP depends on heat uses in the neighbourhood of the heat engine.

Cogeneration plants are commonly found in district heating systems of big towns, hospitals, prisons, oil refineries, paper mills, wastewater treatment plants, thermal enhanced oil recovery wells and industrial plants with large heating needs. 


Quakenbrück

Quakenbrück is a small town in Lower Saxony. It has about 13,000 inhabitants.

Dew point

The dew point is the temperature where water vapor condenses into liquid water.

All air holds different amounts of water vapor. The dew point shows the amount of moisture in the air. The higher the dew point is, the higher the level of moisture in the air at a given temperature. The dew point of humid air will be higher than the dew point of dry air.

Condensation of water vapor starts when the temperature of air is lowered to its dew point and beyond. The dew point, like other measures of humidity, can be found from measurement taken by a hygrometer.



Podgorica

Podgorica () is the capital of Montenegro. In 2011, the population was 185,937.

Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur

The Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur is an independent part of Nicaragua. It is often simply known as RAAS. Its capital is Bluefields. It was made when new regions were formed in Nicaragua in 1989. The old region was turned into Atlántico Sur and Atlántico Norte. The capital of Atlántico Norte is Puerto Cabezas. There is also a popular tourist place called Corn Island, which is about 45 km from the capital Bluefields

Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte

Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte is an autonomous region of Nicaragua. It was created in 1989. Its capital is Puerto Cabezas. Often the name is shotened to RAAN.

Compressor

Compressor could mean:


Gas compressor

A gas compressor is a mechanical device that increases the pressure of a gas by reducing its volume. Compression of a gas naturally increases its temperature. When the gas is air, the machine is called an air compressor.

Compressors are similar to pumps: both increase the pressure on a fluid and both can transport the fluid through a pipe. As gases are compressible, the compressor also reduces the volume of a gas. Liquids are relatively incompressible, so the main action of a pump is to transport liquids.

There are many different types of gas compressors. The two primary categories are:

The more important types in each of the four sub-categories are discussed below.

Centrifugal compressors use a vaned rotating disk or impeller in a shaped housing to force the gas to the rim of the impeller, increasing the velocity of the gas. A diffuser (divergent duct) section converts the velocity energy to pressure energy. They are primarily used for continuous, stationary service in industries such as oil refineries, chemical and petrochemical plants and natural gas processing plants. Their application can be from 100 hp (75 kW) to thousands of horsepower. With multiple staging, they can achieve extremely high output pressures greater than 10,000 psi (69 MPa).

Many large snow-making operations (like a ski resort) use this type of compressor. They are also used in internal combustion engines as superchargers and turbochargers. Centrifugal compressors are used in small gas turbine engines or as the final compression stage of medium-sized gas turbines.

Diagonal or mixed-flow compressors are similar to centrifugal compressors, but have a radial and axial velocity component at the exit from the rotor. The diffuser is often used to turn diagonal flow to the axial direction. The diagonal compressor has a lower diameter diffuser than the equivalent centrifugal compressor.

Axial-flow compressors use a series of fan-like rotating rotor blades to progressively compress the gasflow. Stationary stator vanes, located downstream of each rotor, redirect the flow onto the next set of rotor blades. The area of the gas passage diminishes through the compressor to maintain a roughly constant axial Mach number. Axial-flow compressors are normally used in high flow applications, such as medium to large gas turbine engines. They are almost always multi-staged. Beyond about 4:1 design pressure ratio, variable geometry is often used to improve operation.

Reciprocating compressors use pistons driven by a crankshaft. They can be either stationary or portable, can be single or multi-staged, and can be driven by electric motors or internal combustion engines. Small reciprocating compressors from 5 to 30 horsepower (hp) are commonly seen in automotive applications and are typically for intermittent duty. Larger reciprocating compressors up to 1000 hp are still commonly found in large industrial applications, but their numbers are declining as they are replaced by various other types of compressors. Discharge pressures can range from low pressure to very high pressure (>5000 psi or 35 MPa). In certain applications, such as air compression, multi-stage double-acting compressors are said to be the most efficient compressors available, and are typically larger, noisier, and more costly than comparable rotary units.

Rotary screw compressors use two meshed rotating positive-displacement helical screws to force the gas into a smaller space. These are usually used for continuous operation in commercial and industrial applications and may be either stationary or portable. Their application can be from 3 hp (2.24 kW) to over 500 hp (375 kW) and from low pressure to very high pressure (>1200 psi or 8.3 MPa). They are commonly seen with roadside repair crews powering air-tools. This type is also used for many automobile engine superchargers because it is easily matched to the induction capacity of a piston engine. It's a type of positive displacement gas compression.

A scroll compressor, also known as scroll pump and scroll vacuum pump, uses two interleaved spiral-like vanes to pump or compress fluids such as liquids and gases. The vane geometry may be involute, archimedean spiral, or hybrid curves. They operate more smoothly, quietly, and reliably than other types of compressors.

Often, one of the scrolls is fixed, while the other orbits eccentrically without rotating, thereby trapping and pumping or compressing pockets of fluid between the scrolls.

A diaphragm compressor (also known as a membrane compressor) is a variant of the conventional reciprocating compressor. The compression of gas occurs by the movement of a flexible membrane, instead of an intake element. The back and forth movement of the membrane is driven by a rod and a crankshaft mechanism. Only the membrane and the compressor box come in touch with the gas being compressed.

Diaphragm compressors are used for hydrogen and compressed natural gas (CNG) as well as in a number of other applications.

Air compressors sold to and used by the general public are often attached on top of a tank for holding the pressurized air. Oil-lubricated and oil-free compressors are available. Oil-free compressors are desirable because without a properly designed separator, oil can make its way into the air stream. For some purposes, for example as a diving air compressor, even a little oil in the air stream may be unacceptable.

Charles's law says "when a gas is compressed, temperature is raised". There are three possible relationships between temperature and pressure in a volume of gas undergoing compression:

Since compression generates heat, the compressed gas is to be cooled between stages making the compression less adiabatic and more isothermal. The inter-stage coolers cause condensation meaning water separators with drain valves are present. The compressor flywheel may drive a cooling fan.

For instance in a typical diving compressor, the air is compressed in three stages. If each stage has a compression ratio of 7 to 1, the compressor can output 343 times atmospheric pressure (7 x 7 x 7 = 343 Atmospheres).

Gas compressors are used in various applications where either higher pressures or lower volumes of gas are needed:


Cash

In bookkeeping and finance, "cash" can also refer to checks, money orders, cashier's checks, bank drafts, or traveler's checks. In all these forms, the term indicates the most liquid form of assets, which have a fixed value and can be easily converted to currency: "ready money". For example, wages or salaries paid as "cash" (as opposed to, e.g., stock options) would in most countries normally be paid with checks or direct bank deposits, which are trivially convertible to currency.

Hemer

Hemer is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 35,000 people live there.

Heating

Heating is making something warm. It could mean:
HVACR "R" stand for Refrigeration

Heating devices, or systems:

Heat engine

In engineering and thermodynamics, a heat engine converts heat energy to mechanical work by using the temperature difference between a hot "source" and a cold "sink". Heat is transferred from the source, through the "working body" of the engine, to the "sink", and in this process some of the heat changes into work by using the qualities of the gas or liquid inside the engine.

There are many kinds of heat engines. Each has a thermodynamic cycle. Heat engines are often named after the thermodynamic cycle they use, like the Carnot cycle. They often pick up everyday names, such as gasoline/petrol, turbine, or steam engines.

Internal combustion engines generate heat inside the engine itself. Other heat engines may absorb heat from an external source. Heat engines can be open to the air or sealed and closed off to the outside (This is called an Open or Closed cycle).

When scientists study heat engines they come up with ideas for engines that cannot actually be built. These are called ideal engines or cycles. Real heat engines are often confused with the ideal engines or cycles they attempt to mimic.

Typically when describing the physical device the term 'engine' is used. When describing the ideal the term 'cycle' is used.

One could say that the thermodynamic cycle is an ideal case of the mechanical engine. One could equally say that the model does not quite perfectly match the mechanical engine. However, much benefit is gained from the simplified models, and ideal cases they may represent.

In general terms, the larger the difference in temperature between the hot source and the cold sink, the more efficient the cycle or engine. On Earth, the cold side of any heat engine is limited to the air temperature of the place where the engine is.

Most efforts to improve the efficiency of heat engines goes into increasing the temperature of the heat source, but at very high temperatures the metal of the engine begins to go soft.

The efficiency of various heat engines proposed or used today ranges from 3 percent (97 percent waste heat) for the OTEC ocean power proposal through 25 percent for most automotive engines, to 45 percent for a supercritical coal plant, to about 60 percent for a steam-cooled combined cycle gas turbine. All of these processes gain their efficiency (or lack thereof) due to the temperature drop across them.

The least efficient, OTEC, uses the temperature difference of ocean water on the surface and ocean water from the depths, a small difference of perhaps 25 degrees Celsius, and so the efficiency must be low.

The most efficient, the combined cycle gas turbine burns natural-gas to heat air to nearly 1530 degrees Celsius, a large temperature difference of 1500 degrees Celsius, and so the efficiency can be very large when the steam-cooling cycle is added.

People mostly use heat engines where the heat comes from a fire that expands a working fluid (usually either water or air) and the heat sink is either a body of water or the atmosphere as in a cooling tower.

Familiar ones that use the expansion of heated gases include: the steam engine, the diesel engine, and the gasoline (petrol) engine in an automobile.

The Stirling engine is much rarer but is found in small models which can run off the heat of a hand.
One kind of toy heat engine is the drinking bird.

A bimetallic strip is a device that converts temperature into mechanical movement and is used in thermostats to control temperature. It is a heat engine that does not use a liquid or gas.




Thermodynamic cycle

A thermodynamic cycle is a series of thermodynamic processes which returns a system to its initial state. Properties depend only on the thermodynamic state and thus do not change over a cycle. Variables such as heat and work are not zero over a cycle, but rather depend on the process. The first law of thermodynamics dictates that the net heat input is equal to the net work output over any cycle. The repeating nature of the process path allows for continuous operation, making the cycle an important concept in thermodynamics. 
If the cyclic process moves clockwise around the loop, then it represents a heat engine, and W will be positive. If it moves counterclockwise then it represents a heat pump, and W will be negative.

Two primary classes of thermodynamic cycles are power cycles and heat pump cycles. Power cycles are cycles which convert some heat input into a mechanical work output, while heat pump cycles transfer heat from low to high temperatures using mechanical work input. 

Thermodynamic power cycles are the basis for the operation of heat engines, which supply most of the world's electric power and run almost all motor vehicles. Power cycles can be divided according to the type of heat engine they seek to model. The most common cycles that model internal combustion engines are the Otto cycle, which models gasoline engines and the Diesel cycle, which models diesel engines. Cycles that model external combustion engine include the Brayton cycle, which models gas turbines, and the Rankine cycle, which models steam turbines.



Educational software links:

Christoph Metzelder

Christoph Metzelder (born 5 November 1980 in Haltern, Germany) is a German football player. He plays for Real Madrid He played 47 matches for the Germany national team and scored no goals.

Borussia Dortmund

Real Madrid

Schalke 04

Germany

Individual


Thermodynamic system

In thermodynamics, a thermodynamic system, originally called a "working substance", is defined as that part of the universe that is under consideration. A real or imaginary boundary separates the system from the rest of the universe, which is referred to as the environment or surroundings (sometimes called a reservoir.) A useful classification of thermodynamic systems is based on the nature of the boundary and the quantities flowing through it, such as matter, energy, work, heat, and entropy. A system can be anything, for example a cylinder, a solution in a test tube, a living organism, or a planet, etc. 

Treat

Treat could mean:


Piston

In general, a piston is a lubricated sliding shaft that fits tightly inside the opening of a cylinder. Its purpose is to change the volume enclosed by the cylinder, to exert a force on a fluid inside the cylinder, to cover and uncover ports, or some combination of these. A rubber seal is sometimes used to keep the lubricate within the shaft. Due to the constant motion of the machine this seal wears quickly and should be replaced with every servicing. If the seal should break during usage there can be disastrous long lasting consequences for the machine. 

There are two ways that a piston engine can transform combustion into motive power. These are two-stroke and four-stroke.

A single cylinder two-stroke engine produces power every crankshaft revolution, while a single cylinder four-stroke engine produces power once every two revolutions. Older designs of small two-stroke engines produced more pollution than four stroke engines. However, modern two-stroke designs, like the Vespa ET2 Injection use fuel-injection and are as clean as four-strokes. Large diesel two-stroke engines, as used in ships and locomotives, have always used fuel injection and produce low emissions. One of the biggest internal combustion engines in the world, the Wärtsilä-Sulzer RTA96-C is a two-stroke; it is bigger than most two-story houses, has pistons nearly 1 metre in diameter and is one of the most efficient mobile engines in existence. In theory, a four stroke engine has to be larger than a two stroke engine to produce an equivalent amount of power. Two stroke engines are becoming less common in developed countries these days, mainly due to manufacturer reluctance to invest in reducing two-stroke emissions. Traditionally, two stroke engines were reputed to need more maintenance. Even though the simplest two stroke engines have fewer moving parts, they could wear out faster than four stroke engines. However fuel-injected two-strokes achieve better engine lubrication, and cooling and reliability should improve considerably.

A steam engine is another type of piston engine. In most steam engines, the pistons are "double acting": steam is alternately admitted to either end of the cylinder, so that every piston stroke produces power.


Pinyin

Pinyin is the Mandarin word for "spelling", writing letters showing the sound of a word in place of a Chinese character. Today, it almost always has the sense of Hanyu Pinyin, the way of writing Mandarin sounds which has been used by the People's Republic of China from the 1950s. Other countries like the United States and Taiwan used other ways of spelling Chinese (such as the Wade-Giles and Tongyong Pinyin ways) for a long time, but in the late 20th century started to use Hanyu Pinyin as well. It is standard in China and in the United Nations. It is the most common romanization system for Chinese.

Pinyin uses Roman letters in a special way for certain Chinese sounds. For example, the pinyin letter C is pronounced as /ts/ as in the English word "cats" or the Japanese word "tsunami", and does not sound at all like /k/ or /s/ by itself. Pinyin uses special marks to show the four Chinese tones, which are very important to using Mandarin clearly.

b p m f w

d t n l

g k ng h

j q x y

z c s

a e i o u ü

ai ei ao ou

an en ang eng ong

There are five kinds of tone in Pinyin:

ā, á, ǎ, à, a

"Geyin fuhao" is used after the syllables starting with vowels "a, o, e", for example: pi'ao.

We should divide Pinyin text by words and write syllables connectedly, such as "I am a foreigner" should be written as "Wo shi waiguoren" in Pinyin. 


Susianna Kentikian

Susianna "Susi" Kentikian (born September 11, 1987) is a woman boxer from Germany. She was born in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, but she left the country together with her family when she was five years old, because of the Nagorno-Karabakh War. Kentikian has lived in Hamburg since 1996 and has signed a contract with the Hamburg boxing promoter Spotlight Boxing. Kentikian is the current world champion with the boxing organizations WBA and WIBF in the flyweight weight class.


Banknote

A banknote (more commonly known as a bill in the United States and Canada) is a paper by which a bank promises to pay to the bearer on demand. Together with coins, banknotes make up the cash forms of all modern money. 
Coins are generally used for lower valued monetary units, and banknotes for higher values.

Originally, the value of money was determined by the value of the material the money was made of, such as silver or gold. However, carrying around a lot of precious metal was cumbersome and often dangerous. As an alternative, banknotes would be issued. In financial terms, a note is a promise to pay someone money. Banknotes were originally a promise to give an amount of precious metal to anyone who presented the paper. People could pay for things by giving the banknote, and thus the stored value (usually in gold or silver coins kept in the bank's vault) that the banknote promised. 

In Europe the first paper money consisted of paper 'coins' issued in Protestant Leyden (today, Leiden) in the Netherlands during the Spanish siege of 1574. Over 5000 of the estimated 14,000 residents of Leyden died, mostly due to starvation. Even leather (often used to create emergency currency) was boiled and used to feed the people. So to create currency, the residents took covers and paper from hymnals and church missives and created paper planchets, which were struck using the same dies that were previously used to mint coins. 
The first proper European banknotes were issued by Stockholms Banco, a predecessor of the Bank of Sweden, in 1660, although the bank ran out of coins to redeem its notes in 1664 and ceased operating in that year.

Emergency paper money hand-written on playing cards was used in French Canada from 1685.

In the early 1690s, the Massachusetts Bay Colony was the first of the colonies to issue the permanently circulating banknotes. The use of fixed denominations and printed banknotes came into use in the 18th century. 

In the United States, public acceptance of banknotes in replacement of precious metals was hastened in part by Executive Order 6102. This order carried the threat of a maximum $10,000 fine and a maximum of ten years in prison for anyone who kept more than $100 of gold in preference to bank notes. Similar measures were taken worldwide, with similar results.






